ALBERT MALVINONO Seventh Edition
DAVID J. BATES
Electronic Principles
21012
Electronic
Principles
Seventh Edition
Albert Malvin
David J. Bates
Dedication
Electronic Principles, 7th ed.
is dedicated to my family
and friends who have been
so supportive during this
process and especially to
Jackie, whose patience and
skills helped put this all
together.
About the Authors
Albert P. Malvino was an electronics technician while
serving in the U.S. Navy from 1950 to 1954. He graduated
from the University of Santa Clara Summa Cum Laude in
1959 with a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering. for the next
five years, he worked as an electronics engineer ot Microwaye
Laboratories and at Hewlett-Packard while earning his MSEE
from San Jose State Universíty in 1964. He taught at Foothill
College for the next four years and was awarded a National
Science Foundation Fellowship in 1968. After receiving a
Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University in
1970, Dr. Malvino embarked on a full-time writing career.
He has written 10 textbooks that have been translated into
20 foreign languages with over 108 editions. Dr. Malvino is
currently a consultant and designs microcontroller circuits
for SPD-Smart™ windows. In addition, he is writing
educational software for electronics technicians and
engineers. He also serves on the Board of Directors of
Research Frontiers Incorporated. His website address is
www.malvino.com.
David J. Bates is an instructor in the Electronic
Technologies Department of Western Wisconsin Technical
College located in La Crosse, Wisconsin. Along with working
as an electronic servicing technician and as an electrical
engineering technician, he has over 25 years of teaching
experience.
Credentials include an A.S. degree in Industrial Electronics
Technology, B.S. degree in Industrial Education, and on M.S.
degree in Vocational/Technical Education. Certifications
include an FCC GROL license, A+ certification as a
computer hardware technician, and a Journeyman Level
certification as a Certified Electronics Technician (CET)
by the International Society of Certified Electronics
Technicians (ISCET). David J. Bates is presently a
certification administrator (CA) for ISCET and has served
as a member of the ISCET Board of Directors, along with
serving as a Subject Matter Expert (SME) of basic
electronics for the National Coalition for Electronics
Education (NCEE).
David J. Bates is also a.co-author of "Basic Electricity" a
text-lab manual by Zbar, Rockmaker, and Bates.
Contents
Preface
Chapter 1 Introduction 2
1-1 The Three Kinds of Formulas 1-5 Thevenin's Theorem
1-2 Approximations 1-6 Norton's Theorem
1-3 Voltage Sources 1-7 Troubleshooting
1-4 Current Sources
Chapter 2
Chapter 3
Semiconductors 28
2-1 Conductors
2-9 Forward Bias
2-2 Semiconductors 2-10 Reverse Bías
2-3 Silicon Crystals 2-11 Breakdown
2-4 Intrinsic Semiconductors 2-12 Energy Levels
2-5 Two Types of Flow 2-13 The Energy Hill
2-6 Doping a Semiconductor 2-14 Barrier Potential and
2-7 Two Types of Extrinsic Temperature
Semiconductors 2-15 Reverse-Biased Diode
2-8 The Unbiased Diode
Diode Theory 58
3-1 Basic Ideas
3-7
3-2 The Ideal Diode 3-8
3-3 The Second Approximation
Reading a Data Sheet
How to Calculate Bulk
Resistance
3-4 The Third Approximation
3-9 DC Resistance of a Diode
3-5 Troubleshooting 3-10 Load Lines
3~6 Up-Down CircuitAnalysis
3-11 Surface-Mount Diodes
Chapter 4 Diode Circuits 88
4-1 The Half-Wave Rectifier 4-8 Other Power-Supply
4-2 The Transformer Topics
4-3 The Full-Wave Rectifier
4-9 Troubleshooting
4-4 The Bridge Rectifier
4-10 Clippers and Limiters
4-5 The Choke-Input Filter 411 Clampers
4-6 The Capacitor-Input Filter
4-12 Voltage Multipliers
4-7 Peak Inverse Voltage and
Surge Current
Contents
Chapter 5 Special-Purpose Diodes 142
5-1 The Zener Diode 5-6 Troubleshooting
5-2 The Loaded Zener Regulator 5-7 Load Lines
5-3 Second Approximation of a 5-8
Zener Diode
5-9
5-4 Zener Drop-Out Point
5-10
Optoelectronic Devices
The Schottky Diode
The Varactor
5-5 Reading a Data Sheet
5-11 Other Diodes
Chapter 6 Bipolar Junction Transistors 188
6-1 The Unbiased Transistor 6-7
6-2 The Biased Transistor
Transistor
Approximations
6-3 Transistor Currents
6-8 Reading Data Sheets
6-4 The CE Connection
6-9
Surface-Mount
Transistors
6-5 The Base Curve
6-10 Troubleshooting 9-9
Collector Curves
Chapter 7 Transistor Fundamentals 222
7-1 Variations in Current Gain 7-7 LED Drivers
7-2 The Load Line 7-8 The Effect of Small
7-3 The Operating Point Changes
7-4 Recognizing Saturation
7-9 Troubleshooting
7-5 The Transistor Switch 7-10 More Optoelectronic
Devices
7-6 Emitter Bias
Chapter 8 Transistor Biasing 260
8-1 Voltage-Divider Bias 8-5 Other Types of Bias
8-2 Accurate VDB Analysis 8-6 Troubleshooting
8-3 VDB Load Line and Point 8-7 PNPTransistors
8-4 Two-Supply Emitter Bias
Chapter 9 ACModels 286
9-1 Base-Biased Amplifier
9-6
Two Transistor Models
9-2 Emitter-Biased Amplifier 9-7 Analyzing an Amplifier
9-3 Small-Signal.Operation
8-9
AC Quantities on the
9-4 AC Beta Data Sheet
9-5 AC Resistance of the Emitter Diode
Chapter 10 Voltage Amplifiers 318
10-1 Voltage Gain 10-4
10-2 The Loading Effect of Input Impedance 10-5
Swamped Amplifier
Two-Stage Feedback
10-3 Muitistage Amplifiers 10-6 Troubleshooting
Chapter 11 CC and CB Amplifiers 344
11-1 CCAmplifier
11-2 Output Impedance
11-3 Cascading CE and CC
11-4
11-5
11-6
Darlington Connections
Voltage Regulation
The Common-Base
Amplifier
Chapter 12 Power Amplifiers 376
12-1 Amplifier Terms 12-6
12-2 Two Load Lines Amplifiers
12-3 Class A Operation
12-7
Biasing Class B/AB
Class B/AB Driver
12-4 Class B Operation
12-8 Class C Operation
12-5 Class B Push-Pull Emitter Follower
12-9 Class C Formulas
12-10 Transistor Power Rating
Chapter 13 JFETS 424
13-1 Basic Ideas 13-7 JFET Amplifiers
13-2 Drain Curves. 13-8 The JFET Analog Switch
13-3 The Transconductance Curve 13-9 Other JFET Applications
13-4 Biasing in the Ohmic Region 13-10 Reading Data Sheets
13-5 Biasing in the Active Region 13-11 JFETTesting
13-6 Transconductance
Chapter 14 MOSFETS 478
141 The Depletion-Mode MOSFET 14-6 Digital Switching
14-2 D-MOSFÉT Curves 14-7 CMOS
14-3 Depletion-Mode MOSFET Amplifiers 14-8 Power FETs
14-4 The Enhancement-Mode MOSFET 14-9 E-MOSFET Amplifiers
14-5 The Ohmic Region 14-10 MOSFET Testing
Chapter 15 Thyristors 520
15-1 The Four-Layer Diode
15-2 The Silicon Controlled Rectifier
15-3
15-4
The SCR Crowbar
SCR Phase Control
15-5 Bidirectional Thyristors
15-6 IGBTS
15-7 Other Thyristors
15-8 Troubleshooting
Contents
Contents
Chapter 16 Frequency Effects 562
16-1
16-2
Frequency Response of anAmplifier
Decibel Power Gain.
16-9 Risetime-Bandwidth
16-3 Decibel Voltage Gain
16-10
16-4
Relationship
Frequency Analysis of
BJT Stages Impedance Matching
16-11
16-5 Decibels above a Referenice
Frequency Analysis of
FET Stages
16-6 Bode Plots
16-12
16-7 More Bode Plots Frequency Effects of
Surface-Mount Circuits
16-8 The Miller Effect
Chapter 17 Differential Amplifiers 618
Chapter 18
17-1 The Differential Amplifier 17-5
17-2
DC Analysis of a Diff Amp 17-6
17-3 AC Analysis of a DiffAmp 17-7
17-4 Input Characteristics of an Op Amp 178
Common-Mode Gain
Integrated Circuits
The Current Mirror
The Loaded DiffAmp
Operational Amplifiers 660
18-1 Introduction to Op Amps
18-2 The 741 Op Amp
18-3 The Inverting Amplifier
18-4 The Noninverting Amplifier
18-5 Two Op-Amp Applications
18-6 Linear ICs
18-7 OрpAmps as SurfaceMount Devices
Chapter 19 Negative Feedback 704
19-1 Four Types of Negative Feedback 19-5 The VCIS Amplifier
19-2 VCVS Voltage Gain 19-6 The ICIS Amplifier
19-3 Other VCVS. Equations 19-7 Bandwidth
19-4 The ICVS Amplifier
Chapter 20 Linear Op-Amp Circuits 734
20-1 Inverting-Amplifier Circuits 20-7 Currént Boosters
20-2 Noninverting-Amplifier Circuits 20-8 Voltage-Controlled
20-3 Inverter/Noninverter Circuits
Current Sources
20-4 Differential Amplifiers
20-9 Automatic Gain Control
20-5 Instrumentation Amplifiers
20-10 Single-Supply Operation
20-6 Summing Amplifier Circuits
vi
Chapter 21 Active Filters. 782
21-1 Ideal Responses 21-8 VCVS High-Pass Filters
21-2 Approximate Responses 21-9 MFB Bandpass Filters
21-3 Passive Filters 21-10 Bandstop Filters
234 First-Order Stages 21-11 The All-Pass Filter
21-5 VCVS Unity-Gain Second-Order 21-12
Low-Pass Filters
Biquadratic and StateVariable Filters
21-6 Higher-Order Filters
21-7 VCVS Equal-Component
Low-Pass Filters
Chapter 22 Nonlinear Op-Amp Circuits 842
22-1 Comparators with Zero Reference 22-7 Waveform Generation
22--2 Comparators with Nonzero References 22-8 Another Triangular
22--3 Comparators with Hysteresis
Generator
22-4 Window.Comparator
229 Active Diode Circuits
22-5 The Integrator
22-10 The Differentiator
72ーお Waveform Conversion
22-11 Class-D Amplifier
Chapter 23 Oscillators 890
23-1 Theory of Sinusoidal Oscillation 23-7 The 555 Timer
23-2 The Wien-Bridge Oscillator. 23-8 Astable Operation of the
23-3 Other RCOscillators 555 Timer
The Colpitts Oscillator
23-9 555 Circuits
235 Other LCOscillators
23-10 The Phase-Locked Loop
23-6 Quartz Crystals
23-11 Function Generator ICs
Chapter 24 Regulated Power Supplies 946
24-1 Supply Characteristics 24-5 Current Boosters
24-2 Shunt Regulators 24-6 DC-to-DC Converters
24-3 Series Regulators 24-7 Switching Regulators
2ş Monolithic Linear Regulators
Contents
Contents
Appendix A Data Shèets 994
Appendix B Mathematical Derivations 1046
Appendix С MultiSim Primer 1052
Appendix D Thevenizing the R/2R D/A Converter 1085
Appendix E Summary Table Listing 1087
Glossary 1088
Answers Odd-Numbered Problems 1101
Index 1107
Preface
Electronic Principles, seventh edition, continues its tradition as a clearly explained, in-depth introduction to electronic semiconductor devices and circuits.
This textbook is intended for students who are taking their first course in linear
electronics. The prerequisites are a DC/AC Circuits course, algebra, and some
trigonometry.
Electronic Principles provides essential understanding of semiconductor
device characteristics, testing, and the practical circuits in which they are found.
The text provides clearly explained concepts-written in aneasy-to-read conversational style establishing the foundation needed for understanding the operation and troubleshooting of electronic systems. Practical circuit examples and
troubleshooting exercises are found throughout the chapters.
New to This Edition
Based on the feedback from extensive reviewing and course research, the seventh
edition of Electronic Principles contains enhanced material onavariety of electronic devices and circuits, including:
additional PNPtransistor coverage,
basic Bipolar Junction Transistor (BJT) voltage-divider circuit design
increased ac load line analysis ofBJT power amplifiers
powerE-MOSFET and D-MOSFET biasing
Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBTs)
R/2R ladder D/A converters
Function generator integrated circuits
Class-D amplifiers
Starting in Chapter 1, "Introduction," the T-shooter troubleshooting exercise feature has been simplified for easier student use and understanding. This practical
feature is integrated throughout the remaining chapters. In Chapter 2, "Semiconductors," one of many "Summary Tables" has been added to provide concept reinforcement and a convenient information resource. Starting in Chapter 3, "Diode
Theory," data sheets for specific semiconductor devices will be found within the
chapter as they are discussed. Chapters 4 through 6 have additional content regarding the testing of diodes and transistors using DMMs, VOMs, and semiconductor curve tracers. While Chapter 10, "Voltage Amplifiers," retains its coverage
Preface
of the common-emitter (CE) amplifier, Chapter 11, "CC and CB AmAmplifiers,"
focuses on common-collector (CC) or emitter follower, common-base (CВ)B), and
Darlington amplifier configuraions. Chapter 12, "Power Amplifiers," has been
modified to include class A, B, AB and C power amplifiers, along with additional
ac load line analysis. In Chapter 13, "JFETs," modifications have been made to
the order of JFET biasing and biasing techniques. In Chapter 14, "MOSFETS,"
depletion-mode and power enhancement-mode MOSFET amplifiers have been
added along with MOSFET testing. Chapter 15, "Thyristors," includes more
detail in RC phase-shift control, SCR testing, and introduces IGBTS. Frequency
analysis of FET stages has been added to Chapter 16, "Frequency Effects." In
Chapter 20, "Linear Op-Amp Circuits," the circuit operation of the R/2R ladder
D/Aconverter has been included. Chapter 22, "Nonlinear Op-Amp Circuits," now
inchudes the basic operation of a class-D amplifier. Also, Chapter 23, "Oscillators" has an additional section on function generator ICs, including the XR-2206.
ix
xviii
Acknowledgements
The production of Electronic Principles, seventh edition, is truly a team effort. It
requires the hard work and professional dedication of a large number of people.
Thank you to everyone at McGraw-Hill Higher Education who contributed to this
edition, especially Tom Casson, Jonathan Plant, Lindsay Roth, Kay Brimeyer, and
Carol Kromminga. Special thanks should also go out to Pat Hoppe whose insights, careful review, and tremendous work on the MultiSim files has been a significant contribution to this textbook.
Thanks to everyone whose comments and suggestions were extremely
valuable in the development of this edition. This includes those who took the time
to respond to surveys prior to manuscript development and those who carefully
reviewed the revised material. Every survey and review was carefully examined
and has contributed greatly to this edition. Here is a list of the reviewers who
helped make this edition comprehensive andrelevant.
Current Edition Reviewers
Ron Barrier
Rowan Cabarrus Community
College, NC
Adrien Berthiaume
Northern Essex Community College,
MA
M. C. Greenfield
Indiana State University, IN
Craig Hill
Erie Institute of Technology, PA
Patrick Hoppe
Gateway Technical College, WI
Survey Respondents
Ben Bartlett
College of Southern Idaho, ID
Michele J. Chance
Rowan-Cabarrus Community
College, NC
Walter O. Craig, III
Southern University, LA
Sheila Donchoo
Southern Polytechnic State
University, GA
James A. Duru
Essex County College, NJ
William Eaton
Hinds Community College, MS
Udezei R. Edgal
North Carolina A&T State
University, NC
Glen Elliott
Cambria County Areà Community
College, PА
Fred Etcheverry
Hartnell College, CA
Paul Kiser
National Institute of Technology, WV
DanLookadoo
NewRiver Community College, VA
William Murray
Broome Community College, NY
Rina Mazzucco
Mesa Community College, AZ
Rajappa Papannareddy
Purdue University, IN
Ken White
Lakeland Community College, OH
Jim Fiore
Mohawk Valley Community
College, NY
Rex Fisher
Brigham Young University, ID
John E. Fitzen
Idaho State
George Fredericks
University, ID
Northeast State Technical Community
College, TN
G. J. Gerard
Gateway Community Technical
College, CТ
Albert Gerth
Corning Community College, NY
Melvin G. Gomez
Green River Community
College, WA
James Henderson
Arkansas State University, AR
George Hendricks
Gaston College, NC
Acknowledgernents
Larry Hoffman
Purdue University, IN
David A. Kruse
Lane Community College, OR
Daniel Landiss
St. Louis Community College, MO
M. David Luneau, Jr.
University of Arkansas, AR
Richard McKinney
Nashville State Technical Community
College, TN
Paul Nelson
College ofthe Sequoias, СA
Robert Peeler
Lamar State College, TX
Manuscript Reviewers
Abraham Falsafi
National Institute ofTechnology, WV
Mohamed Haj-Mohamadi
North Carolina A&T University, NC
Patrick Hoppe
Gateway Technical College, WI
John Lindsey
Kansas Community and Technical
College System, KS
Nasser H. Rashidi
Virginia State University VA
Steven D. Rice
University ofMontana, MT
Robert J. Scoff
University ofMemphis, TN
Ron Tinckham
Santa Fe Community College, FL
Anthony Webb
Missouri Tech, MO
Harold Wiebe
Northern Kentucky University, KY
Michael Wilson
Kansas State University, KS
Jim Ramming
Vatterott College, MO
Vince Vasco
Pittsburgh Technical Instirute, PA
XIX
Electronic Principles
chapter
Introduction
The topics in this chapter include formulas, voltage sources, current
sources, two circuit theorems, and troubleshooting. Although some of
the discussion will be review, you will find new ideas that can make it
easier for you to understand semiconductor devices and to serve as a
framework for the rest of the textbook.
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you skould be
able to:
Name the three types of formulas
and explain why each is true.
Explain why approximations are
often used instead of exact formulas.
Chapter Outline
Define an ideal voltage source and
an ideal current source.
1-1 The Three Kinds of Formulas
Describe how to recognize a stiff
voltage source and astiff current
1-2 Approximations source.
1-3 Voltage Sources State Thevenin's theorem and apply
it to a circuit.
1-4 Current Sources
1-5
State Norton's theorem and apply it
Thevenin's Theorem
1-6 Norton's Theorem
1-7 Troubleshooting
to a circuit.
List two facts about an open device
and two facts about a shorted
device.
Vocabulary
cold-solder joint
definition
derivation
duality principle
formula
ideal (first) approximation
law
Norton current
Norton resistance
open device
second approximation
shorted device
solder bridge
theorem
Thevenin resistance
Thevenin voltage
third approximation
troubleshooting
GOOD TO KNOW
For all practical purposes, a
formulalis like a set of instructions
written in mathematical shorthand.
A formula describes how to go
about calculating a particular
quantity or parameter.
1-1 The Three Kinds of Formulas
Aformula is a rule that relates quantities. The rule may be an equation, an inequality, or other mathematical description. You will see many formulas in this
book. Unless you know why each one is true, you may become confused as they
accumulate. Fortunately, there are only three ways formulas can come into existence. Knowing what they are will make your study of electronics more logical
and satisfying.
The Definition
When you study electricity and electronics, you have to memorize new words like
current, voltage, and resistance. However, a verbal explanation of these words is
not enough. Why? Because your idea of current must be mathematically iderntical
to everyone else's. The only way to get this identity is with a definition, a formula
invented for a new concept.
Here is an example of a definition. In your earlier course work, you
learned that capacitance equals the charge on one plate divided by the voltage
between plates. The formula looks like this:
C=
This formula is a definition. It tells you what capacitance C is and how to calculate it. Historically, some researcher made up this definition and it became widely
accepted.
Here is an example of how to create a new definition out of thin air. Suppose we are doing research on reading skills and need some way to measure reading speed. Out of the blue, we might decide to define reading speed as the number
of words read inaminute. If the number of words is W and the number of minutes
is M, we could make up a formula like this:
W
S =
M
In this equation, S is the speed measured in words per minute.
To be fancy, we could use Greek letters: w for words, u for minutes, and
o for speed. Ourdefinition would then look like this:
This equation still translates tó speed equals words divided by minutes. When you
see an equation like this and know that it is a definition, it is no longer as impressive and mysterious as it initially appears to be.
In summary, definitions are formulas that a researcher creates. They are
based on scientific observation and form the basis for the study of electronics.
They are simply accepted as facts. It's done all the time in science. A definition is
true in the same sense that a word is true. Each represents something we want to
talk about. When you know which formulas are definitions, electronics is easier to
understand. Because definitions are starting points, all you need to do is to understand and memorize them.
The Law
Alaw is different. It summarizes a relationship that already exists in nature. Here
is an example of a law:.
2102
d2
Chapter I
Introduction
where f force
K= a constant of proportionality, 9(10)
Q= first charge
Q2 second charge
d = distance between charges
This is Coulomb's law. It says that the force of attraction or repulsion between two
charges is directly proportional to the charges and inversely proportional to the
square of the distance between them.
This is an important equation, for it is the foundation of electricity. But
where does it come from? And why is it true? To begin with, all the variables in
this law existed before its discovery. By experiment, Coulomb was able to prove
that the force was directly proportional to each charge and inversely proportional
to the square of the distance between the charges. Coulomb's law is an example of
a relationship that exists in nature. Although earlier researchers could measure
f Q1, Q2, and d, Coulomb discovered the law relating the quantities and wrote a
formula for it.
Before discovering a law, someone may have a hunch that such a relationship exists. After a number of experiments, the researcher writes a formula
that summarizes the discovery. When enough people confirm the discovery
through experiments, the formula becomes a law. A law is true because you can
verify it with an experiment.
The Derivation
Given an equation like this:
y = 3x
we can add 5 to both sides to get:
y + 5 = 3x + 5
The new equation is true because both sides are still equal. There are many ether
operations like subtraction, multiplication, division, factoring, and substitution
that preserve the equality of both sides of the equation. For this reason, we can
derive many new formulas using mathematics.
A derivation is a formula that we can get from other formulas. This
means that we start with one or more formulas and, using mathematics, arrive at
a new formula not in our original set of formulas. A derivation is true because
mathematics preserves the equality of both sides of every equation between the starting formula and the derived formula.
For instance, Ohm was experimenting with conductors. He discovered
that the ratio of voltage to current was a constant. He named this constant resistance and wrote the following formula for it:
R=
I
This is the original form of Ohm's law. By rearranging it, we can get:
1
R
This is a derivation. It is the original form of Ohm's law converted to another
equation.
5
Here is another example. The definition for capacitance is:
Ω
C
V
We can multiply both sides by V to get the following new equation:
Q = CV
This is a derivation. It says that the charge on a capacitor equals its capacitance
times the voltage across it.
What to Remember
Why is a formula true? Thére are three possible answers. To build your understanding of electronics on solid ground, classify each new formula in one of these
three categories:
Definition: Aformula invented for a new concept
Law: Aformula for a relationship in nature
Derivation: Aformula produced with mathematics
D
1-2 Approximations
We use approximations all the time in everyday life. If someone asks youhow old
you are, you might answer 21 (ideal). Or you might say 21 going on 22 (second
approximation). Or, maybe, 21 years and 9 months (third approximation). Or, if
you want to be more accurate, 21 years, 9 months, 2 days, 6 hours, /23 minutes,
and 42 seconds (exact).
The foregoing illustrates different levels of approximation: an ideal approximation, a second approximation, a third approximation, and an exactanswer.
The approximation to use will depend on the situation. The same is true in electronics work. In circuit analysis, we need to choose an approximation that fits the
situation.
The Ideal Approximation
Didyouknow that 1 ft of AWG 22wire that is 1 in from a chassis has a resistance
of 0.016 2, an inductance of 0.24 µH, and a capacitance of 3.3 pF? If we had to
include the effects of resistance, inductance, and capacitance in every calculation
for current, we would spend too much time on calculations. This is why everybody ignores the resistance, inductance, and capacitance of connecting wires in
most situations.
The ideal approximation, sometimes called the first approximation, is
the simplest equivalent circuit for a device. For instance, the ideal approximation
of a piece of wire is a conductor of zero resistance. This ideal approximation is
adequate for everyday electronics work.
The exception occurs at higher frequencies, where you have to consider the inductance and capacitance of the wire. Suppose 1 in of wire has an
inductance of0.24 µH and a capacitance of 3.3 pF. At 10 MHz, the inductive reactance is 15.1 , and the capacitive reactance is 4.82 k. As you see, a circuit
designer can no longer idealize a piece of wire. Depending on the rest of the
circuit, the inductance and capacitive reactances of a connecting wire may be
important.
Chapter e 1
Introductio ction
As a guideline, we can idealize a piece of wire at frequencie
1 MHz. This is usually a safe rule of thumb. But it dees not mean that you can be
careless about wiring. In general, keep connecting wires as short as possible,
because at some point on the frequency scale, those wires will begin to degrade
cies under
circuit performance.
In
When you are troubleshooting, the ideal approximation is usually adequate
because you are looking for large deviations from normal voltages and currents.
this book, we will idealize semiconductor devices byreducing them to simple equivalent circuits. With ideal approximations, it is easier to analyze and understand how
semiconductor circuits work.
The Second Approximation
The ideal approximation of a flashlight battery is a voltage source of 1.5 V. The second approximation adds one or more components to the ideal approximation. For
instance, the second approximation of a flashlight battery is a voltage source of
1.5 V and a series resistance of 1 . This series resistance is called the source or
internal resistance of the battery. Ifthe load resistance is less than 10, the load voltage will be noticeably less than 1.5 V because ofthe voltage drop across the source
resistance. In this case, accurate calculations must include the source resistance.
The Third Approximation and Beyond
The third approximation includes another component in the equivalent circuit of
the device. Chapter 3 will give you an example of the third approximation when
we discuss semiconductor diodes.
Even higher approximations are possible with many components in the
equivalent circuit of a device. Hand calculations using these higher approximations can become very difficult and time-consuming. Because of this, computere
using circuit simulation software are often used. For instance, MultiSim by Electronics Workbench (EWB) and PSpice are commercially available computer programs that use higher approximations to analyze semiconductor circuits. Many of
the circuits and examples in this book can be analyzed and demonstrated using
this type of software.
Conclusion
Which approximation to use depends onwhat you are trying to do. If you are troubleshooting, the ideal approximation is usually adequate. For many situations, the
second approximation is the best choice because it is easy to use and does not require a computer. For higher approximations, you should use a computer and a
program like MultiSim.
1-3 Voltage Sources
An ideal de voltage source produces a load voltage that is constant. The simplest
example of an ideal de voltage source is a perfect battery, one whose internal
resistance is zero. Figure 1-1a shows an ideal voltage source connected to a
variable load resistance of 1 to 10 MN. The voltmeter reads 10 V, exactly the
same as the source voltage.
Figure 1-1b shows a graph of load voltage versus load resistance. As you
can see, the load voltage remains fixed at 10
Vwhen the load resistance changes
from 1 to 1 MN. In other words, an ideal dc voltage source produces a constant
load voltage, regardless of how small or large the load resistance is. With an ideal
voltage source, only the load current changes when the load resistar tance changes.7
Figure 1-1 (a) Ideal voltage souro urce and variable load resistance; (b) load voltage is constant for all load resistances.
Vs (V)
11
10
AS
10 V
(a)
RL
12-1 MQ
2
6
M 8
10.0 V
1 100 1k 10k 100k 1M
RL
resistance (Ohms)
(b)
Second Approximation
An ideal voltage source is a theoretical device; it cannot exist in nature. Why?
When the load resistance approaches zero, the load current approaches infinity.
No real voltage source can produce infinite current because a real voltage source
always has some internal resistance. The second approximation of a de voltage
source inchudes this internal resistance.
Figure 1-2a illustrates the idea. Asource resistance Rs of I is now in
series with the ideal battery. The voltmeter reads 5 Vwhen Rz is 1 . Why? Because the load current is 10 Vdivided by 2 N, or 5 A.When 5 Aflows through the
source resistance of 1 2, it produces an internal voltage drop of 5 V. This is why
the load voltage is only half of the ideal value, with the other half being dropped
across the internal resistance.
In Figure 1-2b shows the graph of load voltage versus load resistance.
this case, the load voltage does not come close to the ideal value until the load resistance is much greater than the source resistance. But what does much greater
mean? In other words, when can we ignore the source resistance?
Figure 1-2 (a) Second approximation includes source resistance; (b) load voltage is constant for large load resistances.
Vs (V)
SA
10V
ប
S
(a)
4
M
10
8
6
9
Stiff region
L
5€
5.0 V L 1 12-1 ΜΩ
1 100 1k 10k 100k 1M
R resistance (Ohms)
(9)
Chapter 1
Introduction
Figure 1-3 Stiff region occurs when load resistance is large enough.
Vs (V)
Stiff region
100Rs
R resistance (Ohms)
Stiff Voltage Source
Now is the time when a new definition can be useful. So, let us invent one. We can
ignore the source resistance when it is at least 100 times smaller than the load
resistance. Any source that satisfies this condition is a stiff voltage source. As a
definition,
Stiffvoltage source: Rs <0.01RL (1-1)
This formula defines what we mean by a stiffvoltage source. The boundary of the
inequality (where< is changed to =)gives us the following equation:
Rs = 0.01RL
Solving forload resistance gives the minimum load resistance we can use and still
have a stiff source:
RL(min) = 100Rs (1-2)
In words, the minimum load resistance equals 100 times the source resistance.
Equation (1-2) is a derivation. We started with the definition of a stiff
voltage source and rearranged it to get the minimum load resistance permitted
with a stiff voltage source. Aslong as the load resistance is greater than 100Rs, the
voltage source is stiff. When the load resistance equals this worst-case value, the
calculation error from ignoring the source resistance is 1 percent, small enough to
ignore in a second approximation.
Figure 1-3 visually summarizes a stiff voltage source. The load resistance has to be greater than 100Rs for the voltage source to be stiff.
Example 1-1
The definition of a stiff voltage source applies to ac sources as well as to dc
sources. Suppose an ac voltage source has a source resistance of 50 N. For what
load resistance is the source stiff?
SOLUTION Multiply by 100 to get the minimum load resistance:
RL 100Rs = 100(50 N) = 5 kU
As long as the load resistance is greater than 5 k, the ac voltage source is stiff
and we can ignore the inte rnal resistance of the source.
A final point. Using the second approximation for an ac voltage source
is valid only at low frequencies. At highfrequencies, additional factors such as
lead inductance and stray capacitance come into play. We will deal with these
high-frequency effects in a later chapter.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 1-1 If the ac source resistance in Example 1-1.is
600 , for what load resistance is the source stiff?
GOOD TO KNOM
A well-regulated power supply is a
good example of a stiff voltage
source.
GOOD TO KNOW
At the output terminals of a
constant current source, the load
voltage V increases in direct
proportion to the load resistance.
1-4 Current Sources
A dc voltage source produces a constant load voltage for different load resistances. A dc current source is different. It produces a constant load current for different load resistances. An example of a de current source is a battery with a large
source resistance (Fig. 1-4a). In this circuit, the source resistance is 1 Mn and the
load current is:
=71 Vs
Rs+RL
When R, is 1 in Fig. 1-4a, the load current is:
=71 10 V
= 10 μA
1.ΜΩ + 1Ω
In this calculation, the small load resistance has an insignificant effect on the load
current.
Figure 1-4b shows the effect of varying the load resistance from 1 to
I M. In this case, the load current remains constant at 10 μA over a large range.
It is only when the load resistance is greater than 10 kn that a noticeable drop-off
occurs in load current.
Figure 1-4 (a) Simulated current source with a de voltage source and a large resistance; (b) load current is constant for smali load
resistances.
(HA)
RS
1 ΜΩ
w
STH
10
8
A0L
SA
12-1 M
4
ד
10.0 μА M
1 100
(a)
10
Stiff region
1k 10k
A resistance (Ohms)
T
100k 1M
(9)
Chapter 1
Stiff Current Source
Here is another definition that will be useful, especially with semiconductor circuits. We will ignore the source resistance of a current source when it is at least
100 times larger than the load resistance. Any source that satisfies this condition
is a stiff current source. As a definition:
Stiff current source: Rs> 100RL
The upper boundary is the worst case. Atthis point:
Rs = 100RL
(1-3)
Solving for load resistance gives the maximum load resistance we can use and
still have a stiff current source:
RL/msx) =0.01Rs (1-4)
In words: The maximum load resistance equals 00 of the source resistance.
Equation (1-4) is a derivation, because we started with the definition of a
stiff current source and rearranged it to get the maximum load resistance. When
the load resistance equals this worst-case value, the calculation error is 1 percent,
small enough to ignore in a second approximation.
Figure 1-5 shows the stiff region. As long as the load resistance is less
than 0.01Rs, the current source is stiff.
Schematic Symbol
Figure 1-6a is the schematic symbol of an ideal current source, urce one whose source
resistance is infinite. This ideal approximation cannot exist in nature, but it can
exist mathematically. Therefore, we can use the ideal current source for fast
circuit analysis, as in troubleshooting.
Figure 1-6a is a visual definition: It is the symbol for a current source.
When you see this symbol, it means that the device produces a constant current I's.
It may help to think of a current source as a pump that pushes out a fixed number
of coulombs per second. This is why you will hear expressions like "The current
source pumps 5 mAthrough a load resistance of 1 kn."
Figure 1-6b shows the second approximation. The internal resistance is
in parallel with the ideal current source, not in series as it was with an ideal
voltage source. Later in this chapter we will discuss Norton's theorem. You will
then see why the internal resistance must be in parallel with the current source.
Table 1-1 will help you understand the differences between a voltage source and
a current sourсе.
Figure 1-5 Stiff region occurs when load resistance is smallenough.
 Load current
Introduction
100%
Stiff region
99%
Figure 1-6 (a) Schematic symbo bol of a current
source; (b) second approximation ofof a current source.
Is Is
0.01As
(a)
Load resistance
Sy
(9)
어
11
Quantity
Rs
Table 1-1 Properties of Voltage and Currenent
Sources
Voltage Source
Typically low
Current Source
Typically high
RL Greater than 100Rs Less than 0.01 Rs
VL
Constant Depends on RL
1
Depends on RL
Constant
Example 1-2
Acurrent source of 2 mA has an internal resistance of 10 MN. Over what range of load resistance is the current source stiff?
SOLUTION Since this is a current source, the load resistance has to be small compared to the source resistance. With
the 100:1 rule, the maximum load resistance is:
RL(max)0.01(10 M2) =-100 k2
The stiff range for the current source is a load resistance from 0 to 100 k2.
Figure 1-7 summarizes the solution. In Fig. 1-7a, a current source of 2 mA is in parallel with 10 Mn and a variable
resistor set to I . The ammeter measures a load current of 2 mA.When the load resistance changes from I to I M, as
shown in Fig. 1-7b, the source remains stiff up to 100 kn. At this point, the load current is down about 1 percent from the
ideal value. Stated another way, 99 percent of the source current passes through the load resistance. The other I percent
passes through the source resistance. As the load resistance continues to increase, load current continues to decrease.
Figure 1-7 Solution.
(mA)
2.00
1.95 -
PRL
1.90
R
☑
12-10 ΜΩ
1.85
2 mA S 10 ΜΩ
2.0 mA
1.80
1 100
Stiff region
1k 10k
R resistance (Ohms)
100k 1M
(b)
PRACTICE PROBLEM 1-2 What is the load voltage. in Fig. I-7a when the load resistance equals 10 k??
12 Chap hapter 1
Example 1-3
When you analyze transistor circuits, you will visualize a transistor as a current
source. In a well-designed circuit, the transistor will act like a stiff current
source, so that you can ignore its internal resistance. Then you can calculate the
load voltage. For instance, if a transistor is pumping 2 mA through a load resistance of 10 k2, the load voltage is 20 V.
Figure 1-8 (a) Black box has a linear
circuit inside of it; (b) Thevenin circuit.
ANY CIRCUIT WITH
DC SOURCES AND
LINEAR RESISTANCES
(a)
A
8
2RL
1-5 Thevenin's Theorem
Every once in awhile, somebody makes a big breakthrough in engineering and
carries all of us to a new high. A French engineer, M. L. Thevenin, made one of
these quantum leaps when he derived the circuit theorem named after him:
Thevenin's theorem.
Definition of Thevenin Voltage and Resistance
A theorem is a statement that we can prove mathematically. Because ofthis, it is
not a definition or a law. So, we classify it as a derivation. Recall the following
ideas about Thevenin's theorem from earlier courses. In Fig. 1-8a, the Thevenin
voltage VTH is defined as the voltage across the load terminals when the load
resistor is open. Because of this, the Thevenin voltage is sometimes called
open-circuit voltage. As a definition:
Thevenin voltage: VTH = VOC
the
(1-5)
The Thevenin resistance is defined as the resistance that an ohmmeter
measures across the load terminals of Fig. 1-8a when all sources are reduced to
zero and the load resistor is open. As a definition:
Thevenin resistance: RTH = ROC (1-6)
With these two definitions, Thevenin was able to derive the famous theorem
named after him.
There is a subtle point in finding the Thevenin resistance. Reducing a
source to zero has different meanings for voltage and current sources. When you
reduce avoltage source to zero, you are effectively replacing it by a short because
that's the only way to guarantee zero voltage when a current flows through the
voltage source. When you reduce a current source to zero, you are effectively
replacing it by an open because that's the only way you can guarantee zero current
when there is a voltage across the current source. To summarize:
To zero a voltage source, replace it by a short.
To zero a current source, replace it by an open.
A
RTH
VTH S
R The Derivation
B
Intrododuction
(b)
What is Thevenin's theorem? Look at Fig. 1-84. This black box can contntamn any
circuit with de sources and linear resistances. (Alinear resistance does not change
with increasing voltage.) Thevenin was able to prove that no matter how
13
complicated the circuit inside the black box of Fig. 1-8a was, itwould produce exactly the same load current as the simple circuit of Fig. 1-8b. As a derivation:
VTH
IL RTH+RL
(1-7)
be
Let the idea sink in. Thevenin's theorem is a powerhouse tool. Engineers
and technicians use the theorem constantly. Electronics could not possibly
where it is today without the Thevenin theorem. It not only simplifies calculations, it enables us to explain circuit operation that would be impossible to explain
with only Kirchhoff equations.
Example 1-4
Figure re 1-9 (a) Original circuit;
[6) open-load resiststor to get Thevenin
S
voltage; (e) reduce: source to zero to get
Thevenin resis
6 k2 4 k2 A
72 V 3 k52 Ri
72 V
(a)
6 kS2 4 k52 A
6 k요
(g)
3 K2
B
w
4 kS2
W
A
3 ΚΩ
B
)c)
What are the Thevenin voltage and resistance in Fig. 1-9a?
SOLUTION First, calculate the Thevenin voltage. To do this, you have to
open the load resistor. Opening the load resistance is equivalent to removing it
from the circuit, as shown in Fig. 1-9b. Since 8 mAflows through 6 k in series
with 3 κΩ, 24 V will appear across the 3 kΩ. With no current through the 4 Κ,
24 Vwill appear across the ABterminals. Therefore:
VTH 24 V
Second, get the Thevenin resistance. Reducing a dc source to zero is
equivalent to replacing it by a short, as shown in Fig. 1-%. If we connect an
ohmmeter across the ABterminals of Fig. 1-9c, what will it read?
It will read 6 ΚΩ. Why? Because looking back into the AB terminals
with the battery shorted, the ohmmeter sees 4 kn in series with a parallel connection of 3 kn and 6 k2. We can write:
3ΚΩ Χ 6Ω RH = 4ΚΩ +
3ΚΩ + 6ΚΩ
= 6 kU
The product over sum of 3 kn and 6 kn is 2 k,which, added to 4k, gives 6 kn.
Again, we need a new definition. Parallel connections occur soso often in
electronics that most people use a shorthand notation for them. From now on,
we will use the following notation:
|= in parallel with
Whenever you see two vertical bars in an equation, it means in parallel with. In
industry, you will see the foregoing equation for Thevenin resistance written like
this:
RTH = 4ΚΩ + (3 ΚΩ |6 ΚΩ) = 6 ΚΩ
Most engineers and technicians know that the vertical bars mean in parallel
with. So, they automatically use product over sum or reciprocal method to calculate the equivalent resistance of 3 k and 6 k.
Figure 1-10 shows the Thevenin circuit with a load resistor. Compare
this simple circuit with the original circuit of Fig. 1-9a. Can you see how much
14 Chapter er I
Figure 1-10 Thevenin circuit for
Fig. 1-9a.
24 V
거9
w
A
B
2RL
easier it will be to calculate the load current for different load resistances? If not,
the next example will drive the point home.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 1-4 Using Thevenin's theorem, what is the load
current in Fig. 1-9a for the following values of R₁: 2 kN, 6 k, and 18 k2?
If youreally want to appreciate the power of Thevenin's theorem, try
calculating the foregoing currents using the original circuit of Fig. 1-9a and any
other method.
Example 1-5
A breadboard is a circuit often built with solderless connections without regard
to the final location of parts to prove the feasibility of a design. Suppose you
have the circuit of Fig. 1-11a breadboarded on a lab bench. How would you
measure the Thevenin voltage and resistance?
SOLUTION Start by replacing the load resistor with a multimeter, as shown
in Fig. 1-11b. After you set the multimeter to read volts, it will indicate 9
9 V. This
is the Thevenin voltage. Next, replace the de source by a short (Fig. 1-11c). Set
the multimeter to read ohms, and it will indicate 1.5 kn. This is the Thevenin
resistance.
Are there any sources of error in the foregoing measurements? Yes, the
one thing to watch out for is the input impedance of the multimeter when voltage
is measured. Because this input impedance is across the measured terminals, a
small current flows through the multimeter. For instance, if you use a moving-coil
multimeter, the typical sensitivity is 20 k per volt. On the 10-V range, the voltmeter has an input resistance of 200 k2.This will load the circuit downslightly
and decrease the load voltage from 9 to 8.93 V.
As a guideline, the input impedance ofthe voltmeter should be at least
100 times greater than the Thevenin resistance. Then, the loading error is les
less
than 1 percent. To avoid loading error, use a field-effect transistor (FET) inpu
or digital multimeter (DMM) instead of a moving-coil multimeter. The input
impedance of these instruments is at least 10 MN, which usually eliminates
loading error.
Figure 1-11 (a) Circuit on lab bench; ; (b) measuring Thevenin voltage; (c) measuring Thevenin resistance.
2k0 1k 1k 500 A A
Introduction
72V
2kA
2k
Original Circuit
B
15k01
ATH
RIH
1k
RL 210
RL
(a)
B
Thevenin Equiv. Circuit
15
Figure 1-11 (continued)
16
72 V
2K 10 1KA 5000 A
ww
2k
B
Measuring the Thevenin Voltage
(9)
Agilent Multimeter XMM1
Agilent6 Dist Multimeter
09.00000
0 MENS Pacel
2k0 1kg
M
ANER/GIDITS
VDC
XMM1
MATH:
Mhia
Rear Potial
AS LEVER ENTER LOGAL
1k0 5000.
ww
ww ww
2KR 21
Measuring
어
the Thevenin. Resistance
c)
Simulated Agilent Multimeter XMM1
Agilent34401A 6W Digit Multimmeter
1.500000 kohm
Ratio Ref
FUNC
Singre
CHOIOES LEVEL
MATH
HUS
Rtar Pañal
Max...
ង
LO
Chapter 1
1-6 Norton's Theorem
In
Recall the following ideas about Norton's theorem from earlier courses.
Fig. 1-12a, the Norton current IN is defined as the load current when the load resistor is shorted. Because of this, the Norton current is sometimes called the
short-circuit current. As a definition:
Norton current: IN Isc (1-8)
The Norton resistance is the resistance that an ohmmeter measures
across the load terminals when all sources are reduced to zozero and the load resis
tor is open. As a definition:
Norton resistance: RN= Roc
Since Thevenin resistance also equals Roc, we can write:
RNRTH
(1-9)
(1-10)
This derivation says that Norton resistance equals Thevenin resistance.nc If you
calculate a Thevenin resistance of 10 k2, you immediately know that the Norton
resistance equals 10 kn.
GOOD TO KNOW
Like Thevenin's theprem, Norton's
theorem can be applied to ac
circuits çontaining inductors,
capacitors, and resistors. For ac
circuits, the Norton current IN. IS.
usually stated as a complex number
in polar form, whereas the Norton
impedance Zn is usually expressed
as a compiex number in rectangular
form.
Basic Idea
What is Norton's theorem? Look at Fig. 1-12a. This black box can coсontain any
circuit with de sources and linear resistances. Norton proved that the circu rit inside
the black box of Fig. 1-12a would produce exactly the same load voltage as the
simple circuit of Fig. 1-12b. As a derivation, Norton's theorem looks like this:
VL= IN(RN RL) 1-11)
In words: The load voltage equals the Norton current times the Norton res resistance
in parallel with the load resistance.
Earlier we saw that Norton resistance equals Thevenin resistance. But
notice the difference in the location of the resistors: Thevenin resistance is always
in series with a voltage source; Norton resistance is always in parallel with a current sourcе
lirection of conventional current. The exception is a current source drawn with a
Note: If you are using electron flow, keep the following in minind. In
industry, the arrow inside the current source is almost always drawn in the dir
dashed arrow instead of a solid arrow. In this case, the source pumps electrons in
the direction of the dashed arrow.
Figure 1-12 (a) Black box has a linear circuit inside of it; (b) Norton circuit.
Introduction
A
ANY CIRCUIT WITH
DCSOURCES AND
LINEAR RESISTANCES
RL
B
{a)
A
IN RN RL
B
(b)
17
Figure 1-13 Duality principle: Thevenin theorem implies Norton theorem and vice versa. (a) Converting Thevenin to Norton;
(b) converting Norton to Thevenin.
18
HA
IN
Hiy
NH
A
B
A
B
(a)
(9)
The Derivation
NI NA
VTH =
A
B
VTH IN
RTH
RN=RTH
RTH A
VTH=INRN
RTH=RN
B
Norton's theorem can be derived from the duality principle. It states that for any
theorem in electrical circuit analysis there is a dual (opposite) theorem in which
one replaces the original quantities with dual quantities. Here is a brief list of dual
quantities:
Voltage →Current
Voltage sourceCurrent source
Series Parallel
Series resistanceParallel resistance
Figure 1-13 summarizes the duality principle as it applies to Thevenin and Norton
circuits. It means that wecan use either circuit in our calculations. As you will see
later, both equivalent circuits are useful. Sometimes, it is easier to use Thevenin.
At other times, we use Norton. It depends on the specific problem. Summary
Table 1-1 shows the steps for getting the Thevenin and Norton quantities.
Summary Table 1-1| Thevenin and Norton Values
Process Thevenin Norton
Step 1 Open the load resistor.
Step 2
Step 3
Step 4
Calculate or measure the
open-circuit voltage. This is
the Thevenin voltage.
Short voltage sources and
open current sources.
Calculate or measure the
open-circuit resistance. This
is the Thevenin resistance.
Short the load resistor.
Calculate or measure the shortcircuit current. This is the Norton
current.
Short voltage sources, open current
sources, and open load resistor.
Calculate or measure the opencircuit resistance. This is the
Norton resistancе.
Chapter 1
Introduction
Relationships between Thevenin and Norton Circuits
Wealready know that the Thevenin and Norton resistances are equal in value, but
different in location: Thevenin resistance is in series with a voltage source, and
Norton resistance is in parallel with a current source.
We can derive two more relationships, as follows. We can convert any
Thevenin circuit to a Nortoncircuit, as shown in Fig.1-13a. The proof is straightforward. Short the ABterminals of the Thevenin circuit, and you get the Norton current:
VTH
IN KTH (1-12)
This derivation says that the Norton current equals the Thevenin voltage divided
by the Thevenin resistance.
Similarly, we can convert any Norton circuit to a Thevenin circuit,
shown in Fig. 1-13b. The open-circuit voltage is:
VTH = INRN
as
(1-13)
This derivation says that the Thevenin voltage equals the Norton current times the
Norton resistance.
Figure 1-13 summarizes the equations for converting either circuit into
the other.
Example 1-6
Suppose that we have reduced a complicated circuit to the Thevenin circait
shown in Fig. 1-14a. How can we convert this to a Norton circuit?
Figure 1-14 Calculating Norton current.
10 V
2 Ω2 A
o
10 V
=
B
(a)
2 k52
w
(9)
5 MA
A
< 2 ks2
B
)c)
SOLUTION Use Eq. (1-12) to get:
10V
ἦΝ = 2κΩ= 5 mA
Figure 1-14c shows the Norton circuit.
Most engineers and technicians forget Eq. (1-12) soon after they leave
school. But they always remember how to solve the same problem using Ohm's
law. Here is what they do. Look at Fig. 1-14a. Visualize a short across the AB
terminals, as shown in Fig. 1-14b. The short-circuit current equals the Norton
current:
10V
2κΩ 5 mA
This is the same result, but calculated with Ohm's law applied to the Thevenin
circuit. Figure 1-15 summarizes the idea. This memory aid will help you calculate
the Norton current, given the Thevenin circuit.
19
20
Figure 1-15 A memory aid for Norton current.
RTH A
VTH
VTH N RTH
B
PRACTICE PROBLEM 1-6 If the Thevenin resistance of Fig. 1-14a is
5 kN, determine the Norton current value.
1-7 Troubleshooting
Troubleshooting means finding out why a circuit is not doing what it is supposed
to do. The most common troubles are opens and shorts. Devices like transistors
can become open or shorted in a number of ways. One way to destroy any transistor is by exceeding its maximum-power rating.
Resistors become open when their power dissipation is excessive. But
you can get a shorted resistor indirectly as follows. During the stuffing and soldering of printed-circuit boards, an undesirable splash of solder may connect two
nearby.conducting lines. Known as a solder bridge, this effectively shorts any
device between the two conducting lines. On the other hand, a poor solder connection usually means no connection at all. This is known as acold-solder joint
and means that the device is open.
Besides opens and shorts, anything is possible. For instance, temporarily
applying too much heat to a resistor may permanently change the resistance by
several percent. If the value ofresistance is critical, the circuit may notworkproperly after the heat shock.
And then there is the troubleshooter's nightmare: the intermittent trouble. This kind of trouble is very difficult to isolate because it appears and disappears. It may be a cold-solder joint that alternately makes and breaks a contact, or
a loose cable connector, or any similar trouble that causes on-again, off-again
operation.
An Open Device
Always remember these two facts about an open device:
Thecurrent through an open device is zero.
The voltage across it is unknown.
The first statement is true because an open device has infinite resistance. No
current can exist in an infinite resistance. The second statement is true because of
Ohm's law:
V IR = (0)(∞)
Chapter 1
In this equation, zero times infinity is mathematically indeterminate. You have to
figure out what the voltage is by looking at the rest of the circuit.
A Shorted Device
A shorted device is exactly the opposite. Always remember these two statements
about a shorted device:
The voltage across a shorted device is zero.
The current through it is unknown.
The first statement is true because a shorted device has zero resistance. No voltage can exist across zero resistance. The second statement is true because of
Ohm's law:
Figure 1-16 Voltage divider and load
used in troubleshooting discussion.
+12 V
A
R
10 Ω
R3
w
100 k2
Σ
B
R2 R4
10 요 100 ΚΩ
D
이
R0
Zero divided by zero is mathematically meaningless. You have to figure out what
the current is by looking at the rest of the circuit.
Procedure
Normally, you measure voltages with respect to ground. From these measúrements
and your knowledge of basic electricity, you can usually deduce the trouble. After
you have isolated acomponent as the top suspect, you can unsolder or disconnect
the component and use an ohmmeter or other instrument for confirmation...
Normal Values
In Fig. 1-16, a stiff voltage divider consisting of R1 and R2 drives resistors R3 and
R4 in series. Before you can troubleshoot this circuit, you have to know what the
normal voltages are. The first thing to do, therefore, isto work out the values of VA
and VB. The first is the voltage between A and ground. The second is the voltage
between B and ground. Because R1 and R2 are much smaller than R3 and R4 (10 2
versus 100kn), the stiff voltage at A is approximately +6 V. Furthermore, since Ra
and R4 are equal, the voltage at B is approximately +3 V. When this circuit is
trouble-free, you will measure 6 V between A and ground, and 3 V between B and
ground. These two voltages are the first entry of Table 1-2.
R₁ Open
When R1 is open, what do you think happens to the voltages? Since no current can
flow through the open R1, no current can flow through R2. Ohm's law tells us the
voltage across R2 is zero. Therefore, VA= 0 and Vg 0, as shown in Table 1-2 for:
Ri open.
R2 Open
When R2 is open, what happens to the voltages? Since no current can flow othrough
the open R2, the voltage at A is pulled up toward the supply voltage. Since Ri is
uch smaller than R3 and R4, the voltage at A is approximately 12 V. Since R3 and
Riare equal, the voltage at B becomes 6V. This is why VA =12V and VB=6V,
as shown in Table 1-2 for an R2open.
Introdu oduction 21
22
Table 1-2 Troubles and Clues
Trouble VA
VB
Circuit OК 6V
3.V
R₁ open 이
R2 open
12 V
V9
ດ
R3 open 9V
R4 open 6V 6V
Copen
12 V
Dopen
6V
V6
V9
R, shorted 12 V 6V
R2 shorted
0
R3 shorted
V9
R4 shorted 6V
Remaining Troubles
If ground C is open, no current can pass through R2. This is equivalent to an open
R2. This is why the trouble C open has VA 12 V and Vg = 6 V in Table 1-2.
You should work out all of remaining entries in Table 1-2, making sure
that you understand why each voltage exists for the given trouble.
Example 1-7
In Fig. 1-16, you measure VA = 0 and Vg = 0.What is the trouble?
SOLUTION Look at Table 1-2. As you can see, two troubles are possible: Ri
open or R2 shorted. Both of these produce zero völtáge at points A and B. To
isolate the trouble, you can disconnect R₁ and measure it. If it measures open,
you have found the trouble. If it measures OK, then R₂ is the trouble.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 1-7 What could the possible troubles be if you
measure VA = 12 V and Vg = 6 Vin Fig. 1-16?
hapter 1.
Summary
SEC. 1-1 THE THREE KINDS OF
FORMULAS
A definition is a formula invented for a.
new concept. A law is aformula for a
relation in nature. A derivation is a
formula produced with
mathematics.
SEC. 1-2 APPROXIMATIONS
Approximations are widely used in
industry. The ideal approximation is useful
for troubleshooting. The second
approximation is useful for preliminary
circuit calculations. Higher
approximations are used 'with computers.
SEC. 1-3 VOLTAGE SOURCES
An ideal voltage source has no internal
resistance. The second approximation of a
voltage source has an internal resistance in
series with the source. A stiff voltage source.
is defined as one whose internal resistance
is less than %00 of the load resistance.
Definitians
(1-1) Stiff voltage source:
SEC. 1-4 CURRENT SOURCES
An ideal current source has an infinite
internal resistance. The second
approximation of a current source has a
large internal resistance in parallel with
the source. A stiff current source is defined
as one whose internal resistance is more
than 100 times the loada resistance.
SEC. 1-5 THEVENIN'S THEOREM
The Thevenin voltage is defined as the
voltage across an open load. The
Thevenin resistance is defined as the
resistance an ohmmeter would measure
with an open load and all sources
reduced to zero. Thevenin proved that a
Thevenin equivalent circuit will produce
the same load current as any other circuit
with sources and linear resistances.
SEC. 1-6 NORTON'S THEOREM
The Norton resistance equals the
Thevenin resistance. The Norton.current
equals the load current when the load is
shorted. Norton proved that a Norton
equivalent circuit produces the same load
voltage as any other circuit with sources
and linear resistances. Norton curre rrent
equals Thevenin voltage divided byt
Thevenin resistance.
SEC. 1-7 TROUBLESHOOTI TING
The most common troubles are shorts,
opens, andintermittent troubles, A short
always has zero voltage across it; the
current through a short must be
calculated by examining the rest of the
circuit. An open always has zero current
through it; the voltage across an open
must be calculated by examining the rest
of the circuit. An intermittent trouble is
an on-again, off-again trouble that
requires patient and logical
troubleshooting to isolate it.
(1-6) Thevenin resistance:
2RL Rs < 0.01RL
LINEAR
CIRCUIT Roc
(1-3) Stiff current source: (1-8) Norton current:
ZRS ZRL Rs>100RL
LINEAR
CIRCUIT
Isc
(1-9) Norton resistance: (1-5) Thevenin voltage:
LINEAR
RTH ROс
INISC
Hoc LINEAR CIRCUIT RN = Roc Voc
CIRCUIT VTH= VOC
Derivations
(1-2) Stiff voltage source: (1-4) Stiff current source:
Rs
RL(min) RL(min)100Rs ↑R Rưimax) :Rures) = 0.01
Introduction 23
(1-7) Thevenin's thedrem: (1-12) Norton current:
ATH VTH
VTH ZRL IL=
VTH
-T RIH+ RL
(1-10) Norton resistance:
LINEAR
RTH
CIRCUIT
RN= RTH
(1-11) Norton's theorem:
IN1 RN
Ly
VL IN(RN RL)
Student Assignments
Hiy
L
VTH
IN IN RTH
(1-13) Thevenin voltage:
NT.
VT VTH
NNI
1. An ideal voltage source has
a. Zero internal resistance
b. Infinite internal resistance
c. A load-dependent voltage
d. A load-dependent current
c. Less than 10 k
d. More than 10 k
12. A solder bridge
a. May produce ashort
b. May cause an open 7. The Thevenin voltage is the same
c. Is useful in some circuits
2. A real voltage source has
a. Zero internal resistance
b. Infinite internal resistance
c. A small internal resistance
d. A large internal resistance
3. If a load resistance is 100 2, a
stiff voltage source has a
resistance of
a. Less than 1
b. At least 10
c. More than 10 k
d. Less than 10 k
4. An ideal current source has
5.
a. Zero internal resistance
b. Infinite internal resistance
c. A load-dependent voltage
d. A load-dependent current
A real current source has
a. Zero internal resistance
b. Infinite internal resistance
c. A small internal resistance
d. A large internal resistance
6. If a load resistance is 100 2,
a stiff current source has a
resistance of
a. Less than 112
b. Less than 1
as the
a. Shorted-load voltage
b. Open-load voltage
c. Ideal source voltage
d. Norton voltage
8. The Thevenin resistance is equal in
value to the
a. Load resistance
b. Half the load resistance
c.. Internal resistance df a Norton
circuit
d. Open-load resistäncе
9. To get the Thevenin voltage, you
have to
a. Short the load resistor
b. Open the load resistor
c. Short the voltage source
d. Open the voltage source
10. To get the Norton current, you
have to
a. Short the. oad resistor
b. Open the load resistor
c. Short thevoltage source
d. Open the current source
11. The Norton current is sometimes
called the
a. Shorted-load current
b. Open-load current
c. Thevenin current
d. Thevenin voltage
d. Always has high resistance
13. A cold-solder joint
a. Always has low resistance
b. Shows good soldering technique
C. Usually produces an open
d. Will cause a short circuit
14. An open resistor has
a. Infinite current through it
b. Zero voltage across it
c. Infinite voltage across it
d. Zero current through it
15. A shorted resistor has
a. Infinite current through it
b. Zero voltage across it
c. Infinite voltage across it
d. Zero current through it
16. An ideal voltage source and an
internal resistance are examples
of the
a. Ideal approximation
b. Sécond approximation
c. Higher approximation
d. Exact model
17. Treating a connecting wire as a
conductor with zero resistance is
an example of the
a. Ideal approximation
b. Second approximation
c. Higher approximation
d. Exact model
24 Chapter 1
18. The voltage out of an ideal
voltage source
a, Is zero
b. Is constant
C. Depends on the value of load
resistance
d. Depends on the internai resistance
19. The current out of an ideal current
20. Thevenin's theorem replaces
complicated circuit facing a load.
b. Ideal current source and paprallel
by an
a.. Ideal voltage source and parallel
resistor
c. Ideal voltage source and series
Ideal current source and series
resistor
One way to short a device is
resistor
resistor d.
b. Ideal current source and parallel
resistor 22.
c. Ideal voltage source and series
resistor
d. Ideal current source and series
c. By disconnecting it
resistor
a. With a cold-solder joint
b. With a solder bridge
source
a. Is zero
b. Is constant
21.
c. Depends on the value of load
resistance
d. Depends on the internal resistance
Problems
Norton's theorem replaces a
complicated circuit facing a load.
by an
a. Ideal voltage source and parallel
resistor
d, By opening it
23. Derivations are
a. Discoveries
b. Inventions
c. Produced by mathematics
d. Always called theorems
SEC. 1-3 VOLTAGE SOURCES
1-1 A given voltage source has an ideal voltage of 12 V and an
internal resistance of 0.1 . For what values of load resistance
will the voltage source appear stiff?
1-10 In Fig. 1-18, the ideal current is 20 mAand the internal
resistance if 200 kn. If the load resistance equals zero, what
does the load current equal?
1-2 A load resistance may vary from 270 to 100 kn. For a stiff
voltage source to exist, what is the largest internal resistance
Figure 1-18
1-3
the source can have?
The internal output resistance of a function generator is 50 .
For what values of load resistance does the generator appear
SUTT?
IS <ys AL
1-4 A car battery has an internal resistance of 0.04 . For what
values of load resistance does the car battery appear stiff?
1-11
1-5
1-6
The internal resistance ofavoltage source equals 0.05 N. How
much voltage is dropped across this internal resistance when
the current through it equals 2 A?
In Fig. 1-17, the ideal voltage is 9 Vand the internal resistance
is 0.4 2. If the load resistance is zero, what is the load current?
Figure 1-17
In Fig. 1-18, the ideal current is 5 mA and the internal
resistance is 250 k. If the load resistance is 10 k2, what is the
load current?'Is this a stiff current source?
SEC. 1-5 THEVENIN'S THEOREM
1-12 What is theThevenin voltage in Fig. 1-19? TheThevenin resistance?
Figure 1-19
Sy
Vs
2R
6 ΚΩ Α
36 V
3 ΚΩ <2
1:
RL
SEC.
1-7
1-8
1-4 CURRENT SOURCES
Suppose a current source has an ideal current of 10 mA and an
internal resistance of 10M2. For whatvalues of load resistance
will the current source appear stiff?
Aload resistance may vary from 270 2 to 100 k. if a stiff
current source drives this load resistance, what is the internal
resistance ofthe source?
1-9 A current sóurce has an internal resistance of 100 kn.What is
the largest load resistance if the current source must appear
stiff?
1-13.. Use Thevenin's theorem to calculate the load current in
Fig. 1-19 for each of these load resistances: 0, 1 k2, 2 k,
3 k, 4 k, 5 k2, and 6 k2.
1-14 The voltage source of Fig. 1-19 is decreásed to 18 V. What
happens to the Thevenin voltage? To the Thevenin resistance?
1-15 All resistances are doubled in Fig. 1-19.Whathappens to the
Thevenin voltage? To the Thevenin resistance?
SEC. 1-6 NORTON'S THEOREM
1-16 A circuit has a Thevenin voltage of 12 Vand a Thevenin
resistance.of 3 k2.What is the Norton circuit?
Introduction
25
愛
1-17 A circuit has a Norton current of 10 mA and a Norton
resistance of 10 k.What is the Thevenin circuit?
1-18 What is the Norton circuit for Fig. 1-19?
SEC. 1-7 TROUBLESHOOTING
1-19 Suppose the load voltage of Fig. 1-19 is 36 V.What is wrong
with R₁?
Critical Thinking
1-23 Suppose we temporarily short the load terminals of a voltage
source. If the ideal voltage is 12 V and the shorted load current
is 150 A, what is the internal resistance of the source?
1-24 In Fig. 1-17, the ideal voltage is 10 V and the load resistance is
75 . If the load voltage equals 9 V, what does the internal
resistance equal? Is the voltage source stiff?
1-25 Somebody hands you a black boxwith a 2-k resistor
connected across the exposed load terminals. How can you
measure the Thevenin voltage?
1-26 The black box in Prob. 1-25 has a knob on it that allows you to
reduce all internal voltage and current sources to zero. How
can you measure the Thevenin resistance?
1-27 Solve Prob. 1-13. Then solve the same problem without using
Thevenin's theorem. After you are finished, comment on what
you have learned about the Thevenin theorem.
1-28 You are in the laboratory looking at a circuit like the one shown
in Fig. 1-20. Somebody challenges you to find the Thevenin
circuit driving the load resistor. Describe an experimental
procedure for measuring the Thevenin voltage and the
Thevenin resistance.
1-29 Design a hypothetical current source using a battery and a
resistor. The current source must meet the following
specifications: It must supply a stiff 1 mA of current to any
load resistance between 0 and 1 kΩ.
1-30 Design a voltage divider (similar to the one in Fig. 1-19) that
meets these specifications: Ideal source voltage is 30 V, openload voltage is 15 V, and Thevenin resistance is equal to or less
1-31
than 2 k.
Design avoltage divider like the one in Fig. 1-19 so that it
produces a stiff 10 Vto all load resistances greater than 1 M.
Use an ideal voltage of 30 V.
V
1-20 The load voltage of Fig. 1-19 is zero. The battery and the
dao
resistance are OK. Suggest two possible troubies.
1-21 If the load voltage is zero in Fig. 1-19 and all resistors are
normal, where does the trouble lie?
1-22 In Fig. 1-19, R is replaced with a voltmeter to measure the
voltage across R₂.What input resistance must the voltmeter
have to prevent meter loading?
Figure 1-20
1-32
R
R
R2
R12
R4
R
R6
R30 工
유
Rg
A
B
Rз
R11
Somebody hands you a D-cell flashlight battery and da digital
multimeter (DMM). You have nothing else to workork with.
Describe an experimental method for finding the Thehvenin
equivalent circuit of the flashlight battery.
1-33 You have a D-cell flashlight battery, a DMM, and abox
of
different resistors. Describe a method that uses one ofof the.
resistors to find the Thevenin resistance of the battery.
1-34 Calculate the load current in Fig. 1-21 for each of these ese load
resistances: 0, 1 ΚΩ, 2 ΚΩ, 3 ΚΩ, 4 ΚΩ, 5 ΚΩ, and 6 ΚΩ.
Figure 1-21
12 V
6 k2 4 k2 4 k2 4 k52 4ΙΚΩ Α
3.k
3 k2 3 ΚΩ 3 ks2
H
Troubleshooting
1-35 DMaltiSim Using Fig. 1-22 and its troubleshooting table,
find the circuit troubles for conditions 1 to 8. The troubies are
one ofthe resistors open, one of the resistors shorted, anopen
ground, or no supply voltage.
Figure
26
1-22 Trouble bleshooting.
+12 V
EQ
R
4
=
4 kΩ
R3
R2
4 k2
B
2 k2
2 k2
D
Chapter 1
VA VB
3 V
VE
12V
Condition VA VB VE Condition
Normal 4V 2 V 12 V Trouble 5 6V
Trouble 1 12 V 6V 12 V Trouble 6 6 V
Trouble 2
V0
OV 12 V Trouble 7
Trouble 3 6V OV 12 V Trouble 8 3 V
Trouble 4 3 V 3V 12 V
12 V
ΛΟ
ΛΟ V0 AV0
12 V
V9
Job Interview Questions
A job interviewer can quickly tell whether your learning is
skin-deep or whether you really understand electronics.
Interviewers do not always ask neat and tidy questions.
Sometimes, they leave out data to see how you handle the
question. When you interview for a job, the interviewer might
ask you questions like the following.
1. What is the difference between avoltage source and a
current source?
2. When do you have to include the source resistance in your
calculations for load current?
3. If a device is modeled as a current source, what can you say
about the load resistance?
4. What does astiff source mean to you?
5. T have a circuit breadooarded on my lab bench. Tell me what
measurements I can make to get the Thevenin voltage and
Thevenin resistance.
6. Whatwould be an advantage of a 50 voltage source
compared to a 600 voltage source?
7. How are the Thevenin resistance and "cold cranking
amperes" of a car battery related?
Someone tells you that a voltage source is heavily loaded.
What do you think this means?
8.
9. Which approximation does the technician normally use
when performing initial troubleshooting procedures? Why?
10. When troubleshooting an electronics system, you measure
a de voltage of 9.5 V at a test point where the schematic
diagram says it should be 10 V. What should you infer from
this reading? Why?
11. What are some of the reasons for using a Thevenin or
Norton circuit?
12. What is the value of the Thevenin and Norton theorems in
bench testing?
Self-Test Answers
1. a 5. d 9. 9 13. C 17. a 21.
2. 6. d 10. a 14. d 18. b 22.
b
a
3. a
7. b 11. a 15. b 19.
b
23. C
4. b
8. C 12. 16.
b
20. с
Practice Problem Answers
1-1 60 k2
1-2 V= 20 V
Introduction
1-4 3 mAwhen R₁ 2 k; 2 mA R= 16 IN= 2 mA
6 ΚΩ; 1 ΜΑ R = 18 ΚΩ
1-7 Either Rz open, C open, or R shorted
27
hapter 2 Semiconductors
To understand how diodes, transistors, and integrated circuits work,
you first have to study semiconductors: materials that are neither
conductors nor insulators. Semiconductors contain some free
electrons, but what makes them unusual is the presence of holes.
In this chapter, you will learn about semiconductors, holes, and other
related topics.
Chapter Outline
2-1 Conductors
2-2 Semiconductors
2-3 Silicon Crystals
2-4
2-5
2-6
Intrinsic Semiconductors
Two Types of Flow
Doping a Semiconductor
Two Types of Extrinsic
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be
able to:
Recognize, at the atomic level, the
characteristics of good conductors
and semiconductors.
Describe the structure of a silicon
crystal.
List the two types of carriers and
name the type of impurity that
causes each to be a majority carrier.
Explain the conditions that exist at
the pnjunction of an unbiased
diode, a forward-biased diode, and a
reverse-biased diode.
Describe the types of breakdown
current caused by excessive reverse
voltage across a diode.
2-7
Semiconductors
2-8 The Unbiased Diode
2-9 Forward Bias
2-10 R.verse Bias
2-11 Breakdown
2-12 Energy Levels
2-13 The Energy Hill
2-14 Barrier Potential and Temperature
2-15 Reverse-Biased Diode
Vocabulary
ambient temperature forward bias
avalanche effect free electron
barrier potential hole
breakdown voltage intrinsie semiconductor
junction diode
junction temperature
majoritý carriers
conduction band
covalent bond
depletion layer
diode
doping
extrinsic semiconductor
n-type semiconductor
p-type semiconductor
minority carriers
pn junction
recombination
reverse bias
saturation current
semiconductor
silicon.
surface-leakage current
thermal energy
29
30
2-1 Conductors
Copper is a good conductor. The reason is clear when we look at its atomic structure (Fig. 2-1). The nucleus of the atom contains 29 protons (positive charges).
When a copper atom has a neutral charge, 29 electrons (negative charges) circle
the nucleus like planets around the sun. The electrons travel in distinct orbits (also
called shells). There are 2 electrons in the first orbit, 8 electrons in the second,
18 in the third, and 1 in the outer orbit.
Stable Orbits
The positive nucleus of Fig. 2-1 attracts the planetary electrons. The reason why
these electrons are not pulled into the nucleus is the centrifugal (outward) force
created by their circular motion. This centrifugal force is exactly equal to the in
ward pull of the nucleus, so that the orbit is stable. The idea is similar to a satellite that orbits the earth. At the right speed and height, a satellite can remain in a
stable orbit above the earth.
The larger the orbit of an electron, the smaller the attraction of the nucleus. In a larger orbit, an electron travels more slowly, producing less centrifugal
force. The outermost electron in Fig. 2-1 travels very slowly and feels almost no
attraction to the nucleus.
The Core
In electronics, all that matters is the outer orbit. It is called the valence orbit. This
orbit controls the electrical properties of the atom. To emphasize the importance
of the valence orbit, we define the core of an atom as the nucleus and all the
inner orbits. For a copper atom, the core is the nucleus (+29), and the first three
orbits (-28).
The core of a copper atom has a net charge of +1 because it contains
29 protons and 28 inner electrons. Figure 2-2 can help in visualizing the core and
the valence orbit. The valence electron is in a large orbit around a core and has a
net charge of only +1. Because of this, the inward pull felt by the valence electron is very small.
Figure 2-1 Copper atom. Figure 2-2 Core diagram of copper atom.
Θ
Θ
Θ
+29)
Θ Θ
(+1
Chapter 2
Semiconductors
Free Electron
Since the attraction between the core and the valence electron is very weak, an
outside force can easily dislodge this electron from the copper atom. This is why
we often call the valence electron a free electron. This is also why copper is a
good conductor. The slightest voltage causes the free electrons to flow from one
atom to the next. The best conductors are silver, copper, and gold. All have a core
diagram like Fig. 2-2.
Example 2-1
Suppose an outside force removes the valence electron of Fig. 2-2 from a copper
atom.What is the net charge of the copper atom?What is the net charge if an
outside electron moves into the valence orbit of Fig. 2-2?
SOLUTION.. When the valence electron leaves, the net charge of the atom
becomes +1, Whenever an atom loses one of its electrons, it becomes positively
charged. We call a positively charged atom a positive ion.
When an outside electron moves into the valence orbit of Fig. 2-2, the
net charge of the atom becomes -1. Whenever an atom has an extra electron in
its valence orbit, we call the negatively charged atom a negative ion.
2-2 Semiconductors
The best conductors (silver, copper, and gold) have one valence electron, whereas
the best insulators have eight valence electrons. A semiconductor is an element with electrical properties between those of a conductor and those of an
insulator. As you might expect, the best semiconductors have four valence
electrons.
Germanium
Germanium is an example of a semiconductor. It has four electrons in the valence
orbit. Many years ago, germanium was the only material suitable for making
semiconductor devices. But these germanium devices had a fatal flaw (their
excessive reverse current, discussed in a later section) that engineers could not
overcome. Eventually, another semiconductor named silicon became practical
and made germanium obsolete in most electronic applications.
Silicon
Next to oxygen, silicon is the most abundant element on the earth. But there were
certain refining problems that prevented the use of silicon in the early days of
semiconductors. Once these problems were solved, the advantages of silicon (discussed later) immediately made it the semiconductor of choice. Without it, modern electronies, communications, and computers would be impossible.
31
Figure 2-3 (o) Silicon atom; (b) core diagram.
(+14) A A
(a)
Θ Θ
(+4
(b)
GOOD TO KNOW
Another common semiconductor
element is carbon (C), which is used
mainly in the production of
resistors.
An isolated silicon atom has 14 protons and 14 electrons. As shown in
Fig. 2-3a, the first orbit contains 2 electrons and the second orbit contains 8 electrons. The 4 remaining electrons are in the valence orbit. In Fig. 2-3a, the core has
a net charge of +4 because it contains 14 protons in the nucleus and 10 electrons
in the first two orbits.
Figure 2-3b shows the core diagram of a silicon atom. The 4 valence
electrons tell us that silicon is a semiconductor.
32
Example 2-2
What is the net charge of the silicon atom in Fig. 2-3b if it loses one of its
valence electrons? If it gains an extra electron in the valence orbit?
SOLUTION If it loses an electron, it becomes a positive ion with a
charge of +1. If it gains an extra electron, it becomes a negative ion with
a charge of-1.
2-3 Silicon Crystals
When silicon atoms combine to form a solid, they arrange themselves into an
orderly pattern called a crystal. Each silicon atom shares its electrons with four
neighboring atoms in such a way as to have eight electrons in its valence orbit. For
instance, Fig. 2-4a shows a central atom with four neighbors. The shaded circles
represent the silicon cores. Although the central atom originally had four electrons
in its valence orbit, it now has eight.
Chapter 2
ctors
Figure 2-4 2-4 (a) Atom in crystal has four neighbors; (b) covalent bonds.
(a) (b)
Covalent Bonds
Each neighboring atom shares an electron with the central atom. In this way, the
central atom has four additional electrons, giving it a total of eight electrons in the
valence orbit. The electrons no longer belong to any single atom. Each central
atom and its neighbors share the electrons. The same idea is true for all the other
silicon atoms. In other words, every atom inside a silicon crystal has four
neighbors.
In Fig. 2-4a, each core has a charge of +4. Look at the central core and
the one to its right. These two cores attract the pair ofelectrons between them with
equal and opposite force. This pulling in opposite directions is what holds. the
silicon atoms together. The idea is similar to tug-of-war teams pulling on a rope.
As long as both teams puil with equal and opposite force, they remain bonded
together.
Since each shared electron in Fig. 2-4a is being pulled in opposite directions, the electron becomes a bond between the opposite cores. We call this type
of chemical bond a covalent bond. Figure 2-4b is a simpler way to show the concept of the covalent bonds. In a silicon crystal, there are billions of silicon atoms,
each with eight valence electrons. These valence electrons are the covalent bonds
that hold the crystal together--that give it solidity.
Valence Saturation
Each atom in a silicon crystal has eight electrons in its valence orbit. These eight
electrons produce achemical stability that results in a solid piece of silicon material. No one is quite sure why the outer orbit of all elements has a predisposition
toward having eight electrons. When eight electrons do not exist naturally in an
element, there seems to be a tendency for the element to combine and share electrons with other atoms so as to have eight electrons in the outer orbit.
There are advanced equations in physics that partially explain why eight
electrons produce chemical stability in different materials, but no one knows the
reason why the number eight is so special. It is one of those laws like the law of
gravity, Coulomb's law, and other laws that we observe but cannot fully explain.
When the valence orbit has eight electrons, it is saturated because no
more electrons can fit into this orbit. Stated as a law:
Valence saturàtion: n = 8 (2-1)
In words, the valence orbit can hold no more than eight electrons. Furthermore,
the eight valence electrons are called bound electrons because they are tightly
33
GOOD TO KNOW
A hole and an electron each possesS
a charge of 0.16 × 10-18 C, but of
opposite polarity.
Figure 2-5 (0) Thermal energy
produces electron and hole;
(b) reçombination of free electron
and hole.
held by the atoms. Because of these bound electrons, a silicon crystal is almost a
perfect insulator at room temperature, approximately 25°C.
The Hole
The ambient temperature is the temperature of the surrounding air. When the
ambient temperature is above absolute zero (-273°C), the heat energy in this air
causes the atoms in a silicon crystal to vibrate. The higher the ambient tempегаture, the stronger the mechanicał vibrations become. When you pick up a warm
object, the warmth you feel is the effect of the vibrating atoms.
in a silicon crystal, the vibrations of the atoms can occasionally disłodge
an electron from the valence orbit. When this happens, the released electron gains
enough energy to go into a larger orbit, as shown in Fig. 2-5a. In this larger orbit.
the electron is a free electron.
But that's not all. The departure of the electron creates a vacancy in the
valence orbit cailed a hole (see Fig.2-5a). This hole behaves like a positive
charge because the loss of the electron produces a positive ion. The hole will attract and capture any electron in the immediate vicinity. The existence of holes is
the critical difference between conductors and semiconductors. Holes enable
semiconductors to do all kinds of things that are impossible with conductors.
At room temperature, thermal energy produces only a fewholes and free
electrons. To increase the number of holes and free electrons, it is necessary to
dope the crystal. More is said about this in a later section,
Recombination and Lifetime
In a pure silicon crystal, thermal (heat) energy creates an equal number of free
electrons and holes. The free electrons move randomly throughout the crystal.
Occasionally, a free electron will approach a hole, feel its attraction, and fall into it.
Recombination is the merging of a free electron and a hole (see Fig. 2-5b).
The amount of time between the creation and disappearance of a free.
electron is called the lifetime. It varies from a few nanoseconds to several microseconds, depending on howperfect the crystal is and other factors.
Main Ideas
At any instant, the following is taking place inside a silicon crystal:
1. Some free electrons and holes are being created by thermal energy.
2. Other free electrons and holes are recombining
3. Some free electrons and holes exist temporarily, awaiting
recombination.
34
(a)
(b)
Example 2-3
If a pure silicon crystal has 1 million free electrons inside it, how many holes
does it have? What happens to the number of free electrons and holes if the ambient temperature increases?
SOLUTION Look at Fig. 2-5a.When heat energy creates a free ee electron, it
automatically creates a hole atthe same time. Therefore, a pure silicon crystał
Chapter 2
Semiconductors
always has the saine number of holes and free electrons. If there are } million
free electrons, there are 1 million holes.
Ahigher temperature increases the vibrations at the atomic level. which
means that more free electrons and holes are created. But no matter what the
temperature is, a pure silicon crystal has the same number of free electrons and
holes.
2-4 Intrinsic Semiconductors
An intrinsic semiconductor is a pure semiconductor. A silicon crystal 15
intrinsic semiconductor if every atom in the crystal is a silicon atom. At room
temperature, a silicon crystal acts like an insulator because it has only a few free
electrons and holes produced by thermal energy.
Flow of Free Electrons
Figure 2-6 shows part of a silicon.crystal between charged metallic plates. Assume that thermal energy has produced a free electron and a hole. The free electron is in a large orbit at the right end of the crystal. Because of the negatively
charged plate. the free electron is repelled to the left. This free electron can move
from one large orbit to the next until it reaches the positive plate.
Flow of Holes
Notice the hole at the left of Fig. 2-6. This hole attracts the valence electron at
point A. This causes the valence electron to move into the hole.
When the valence electron at point A moves to the left, it creates a new
hole at point A. The effect is the same as moving the original hole to the right. The
new hole at point A can then attract and capture another valence electron. In this
way, valence electrons can travel along the path shown by the arrows. This mean
the hole can move the opposite way, along path A-B-C-D-E-F, acting the sar
asapositive charge.
Figure 2-6 Hole flow through a semicondu tonduçtor.
FREE ELECTRON
Figure 2-7 Intrinsic semiconductor
has equal number of free electrons and 2-5 Two Types of Flow
holes.
Figure 2-8 (a) Doping to get more
free electrons; (b) doping to get more
holes.
胜
FREE ELECTRON
(a)
)b(
Figure 2-7 shows an intrinsic semiconductor. It has the same number of free electrons and holes. This is because thermal energy produces free electrons and holes
inpairs. The appliedvoltage will force the free electrons to flow left and the holes
to flow right. When the free electrons arrive at the left end ofthe crystal, they enter
the external wire and flow to the positive battery terminal.
On the other hand, the free electrons at the negative battery terminal will
flow to the right end of the crystal. Atthis point, they enter the crystal and recombine with holes that arrive at the right end of the crystal. In this way, a steady flow
offree electrons and holes occurs inside the semiconductor. Note that there is no
hole flow outside the semiconductor.
In Fig. 2-7, the free electrons and holes move in opposite directions.
From now on, we willvisualize the current in a semiconductor as the combined
effect ofthe twotypes offlow: the flow of free electrons in one direction and the
flow of holes in the other direction. Free electrons and holes are often called
carriers because they carry a charge from one place to another.
2-6 Doping a Semiconductor
One way to increase conductivity of a semiconductor is by doping. This means
adding impurity atoms to an intrinsic crystal to alter its electrical conductivity. A
doped semiconductor is called an extrinsic semiconductor.
Increasing the Free Electrons
How does a manufacturer dope a silicon crystal? The first step is to melt a pure silicon crystal. This breaks the covalent bonds and changes the silicon from a solid
to a liquid. To increase the number of free electrons, pentavalent atoms are added
to the molten silicon. Pentavalent atoms n have five electrons in the valence orbit.
Examples of pentavalent atoms include arsenic, antimony, and phosphorus.
Because these materials will donate an extra electron to the silicon crystal, they
are often referred to as donor impurities.
Figure 2-8a shows how the doped silicon crystal appears after it cools
down and re-forms its solid crystal structure. A pentavalent atom is in the center,
surrounded byfour silicon atoms. As before, the neighboring atoms share an elec
tron with the central atom. But this time, there is an extra electron left over.
Remenber that each pentavalent atom has five valence electrons. Since only eight
electrons can fit into the valence orbit, the extra electron remains in a larger orbit.
In other words, it is a free electron.
Each pentavalent or donor atom in a silicon crystal produces one free
electron This is how a manufacturer controls the conductivity of a doped semiconductor. The more impurity that is added, the greater the conductivity. In this
way, a semiconductor may be lightly or heavily doped. Alightly doped semiconductor has a high resistance, whereas a heavily doped semiconductor has a low
resistance.
Increasing the Number of Holes
a
How can we dope a pure silicon crystal to get an excess of holes? By using
trivalent impurity, one whose atoms have only three valence electrons. Examples
include aluminum, boron, and gallium.
Figure 2-8b shows a trivalent atom in the center. It is surrounded by four
silicon atoms, each sharing one of its valenice electrons. Since the trivalent atom
originally had only three valence electrons and each neighbor shares one
Chapter 2
electron, only seven electrons are in the valence orbit. This means that a hole
exists in the valence orbit of each trivalent atom. Atrivalent atom is also called
an acceptor atom because each hole it contributes can accept a free electron
during recombination.
Points to Remember
Before manufacturers can dope a semiconductor, they must produce it as a pure
crystal. Then, by controlling the amount of impurity, they can precisely control
the properties of the semiconductor. Historically, pure germanium crystals were
easier to produce than pure silicon crystals. This is why the earliest semiconductor devices were made of germanium. Eventually, manufacturing techniques
improved and pure silicon crystals became available. Because of its advantages,
silicon has become the most popular and useful semiconductor material.
Example 2-4
Adoped semiconductor has 10 billion silicon atoms and 15 million pentavalent
atoms. If the ambient temperature is 25°C, how many free electrons andholes:
are there inside the semiconductor?
SOLUTION Each pentavalent atom contributes one free electron. Therefore
the semiconductor has 15 million free electrons produced by doping. There wi
be almost no holes by comparison because the only holes in the semiconduor
are those produced by heat energy.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 2-4 As in Example 2-4, if 5 million trivalent atoms
are added instead of pentavalent atoms, how many holes are there inside the
semiconductor?
Figure 2-9 n-type semicoríductor has
many free electrons.
Semiconductors
2-7 Two Types of
Extrinsic Semiconductors
A semiconductor can be doped to have an excess offree electrons or an excess of
holes. Because of this, there are two types of doped semiconductors.
n-Type Semiconductor
Silicon that has been doped with a pentavalent impurity is called an n-type semiconductor, where the n stands for negative. Figure 2-9 shows an n-type semiconductor. Since the free electrons outnumber the holes in anan n-type semiconductor,
the free electrons are called the majority carriers and the holes are called the
minority carriers.
Because of the applied voltage, the free electrons move to the leftand the
holes move to the right. When a hole arrives at the right end ofthe crystal, one of
the free electrons from the external circuit enters the semiconductor and recombines with the hole.
37
38
Figure 2-10 p-type semiconductor
has many holes. ++++十十千司 ++++++++
The free electrons shown in Fig. 2-9 flow to the left end of the crystal,
where they enter the wire and flow on to the positive terminal of the battery.
p-Type Semiconductor
Silicon that has been doped with a trivalent impurity is called ap-type semicon
ductor, where the p stands for positive. Figure 2-10 shows a p-type semiconductor. Since holes outnumber free electrons, the holes are referred to as the majority
carriers and the free electrons are known as the minority carriers.
Because of the appliedvoltage, the free electrons move to the left and the
holes move to the right. In Fig. 2-10, the holes arriving at the right end of the crystal will recombine with free electrons from the external circuit.
There is also a flow of minority carriers in Fig. 2-10. The free electrons
inside the semiconductor flow from right to left. Because there are so few minority carriers, they have almost no effect in this circuit.
2-8 The Unbiased Diode
By itself, a piece of n-type semiconductor is about as useful as a carbon resistor;
the same can be said for ap-type semiconductor. But when a manufacturer dopes
a crystal so that one-half of it is p-type and the other half is n-type, something new
comes into existence.
The border between p-type and n-type is called the pn junction. The pn
junction has led to all kinds of inventions including diodes, transistors, and integrated circuits. Understanding the pn junction enables you to understand all kinds
of semiconductor devices.
The Unbiased Diode
As discussed in the preceding section, each trivalent atom in a doped silicon crystal produces one hole. For this reason, we can visualize a piece of p-type semiconductor as shown on the left side of Fig. 2-11. Each circled minus sign is the
trivalent atom, and each plus sign is the hole in its valence orbit.
Similarly, we can visualize the pentavalent atoms and free electrons of
an n-type semiconductor as shown on the right side of Fig. 2-11. Each circled plus
sign represents a pentavalent atom, and each minus sign is the free electron it contributes to the semiconductor. Notice that each piece of semiconductor material is
electrically neutral because the number ofpluses andminuses is equal.
A manufacturer can produce a single crystal with p-type material on one
side and n-type on the other side, as shown in Fig. 2-12. The junction is the border where the p-type and the n-type regions meet, and junction diode is another
name for a pncrystal. The word diode is a contraction of two electrodes, where di
stands for "two.
Figure 2-11 Two types of semiconductor.
+ ①+ ++
Θ
d
+++
 ΘΙ ΘίΙ
Chapter 2
Semiconductors
Figure 2-12 The pn junction.
Θ
Ο
Θ
The Depletion Layer
Because oftheirrepulsion for each other, the free electrons on the nside of Fig.2-12
tend to diffuse (spread) in all directions. Some of the free electrons diffuse across
the junction. When a free electron enters the p region, it becomes a minority carrier. With so many holes around it, this minority carrier has a short lifetime. Soon
after entering the p region, the free electron recombines with a hole.When this
happens, the hole disappears and the free electron becomes a valence electron.
Each time an electron diffuses across a junction, it creates a pair of ions.
When an electron leaves the n side, it leaves behind a pentavalent atom that is
short one negative charge; this pentavalent atombecomes a positive ion. After the
migrating electron falls into a hole on the p side, it makes a negative ion out of the
trivalent atom that captures it.
Figure 2-13a shows these ions on each side of the junction. The circled
plus signs are the positive ions, and the circled minus signs are the negative ions.
The ions are fixed in the crystal structure because of covalent bonding, and they
cannot move around like free electrons and holes.
Each pair of positive and negative ions at the junction is called a dipole.
Thecreation of a dipole means that one free electron and one hole havebeen taken
out of circulation. As the number of dipoles builds up, the region near the junction
is emptied of carriers. We call this charge-empty region the depletion layer
(see Fig. 2-13b).
Barrier Potential
Each dipole has an electric field between the positive and negative ions. Therefore, if additional free electrons enter the depletion layer, the electric field tries to
push these electrons back into the n region. The strength of the electric field increases with each crossing electron until equilibrium is reached. To a first approximation, this means that the electric field eventually stops the diffusion of
electrons across the junction.
Figure 2-13 (o) Creation of ions at junction; (b) depletion layer.
IONS
Ë Θ
Θ 이
Θ
Θ
Θ Θ Θ σ
Ο Θ Θ
Θ Θ Θ
Θ
++
Θ Θ
Θ 이 Θ
(a)
S
Θ
DEPLETION LAYER
Θ ++
)b(
ΟΙ
39
40
In Fig. 2-13a, the electric field between the ions is equivalent to a difterence of potential called the barrier potential. At 25°C, the barrier potential
equals approximately 0.3 V for germanium diodes and 0.7 V for silicon diodes.
2-9 Forward Bias
Figure 2-14 shows
 a dc source across a diode. The negative source terminal is
connected to the n-type material, and the positive terminal is connected to the
p-type rmeterial: This connection produces what is called forward bias.
Flow of Free Electrons
In Fig. 2-14, the battery pushes holes and free electrons toward thejunction. If the
battery voltage is less than the barrier potential, the free electrons do not have
enoug'h energy to get through the depletion layer.When they enter the depletion
iay er, the ions will push them back into the n region. Because of this, there is no
current through the diode.
When the devoltage source is greater than the barrier potential, the battery again pushes holes and free electrons toward thejunction. This time, the free
electrons have enough energy to pass through the depletion layer and recombine
with the holes. Ifyou visualize all the holes in the p region moving to the right and
all the free electrons moving to the left, you will have the basic idea. Somewhere
in the vicinity of the junction, these opposite charges recombine. Since free electrons continuously enter the right end of the diode and holes are being continu
ously created at the left end,there is a continuous current through the diode.
The Flow of One Electron
It
Let us follow a single electron through the entire circuit. After the free electron
leaves the negative terminal of the battery, it enters the right end of the diode.
travels through the nregion until it reaches the junction. When the battery voltage
is greater than 0.7.V, the free electron has enough energy to get across the depletion layer. Soon after the free electron has entered the pregion, it recombines with a hole. a valence electron. As a In other words, the free electron becomes
valence electron, it continues to travel to the left, passing from one hole to the next
until it reaches the left end of the diode. When it leaves the left end of the diode, a new hole appears and the process begins again. Since there are billions of electrons taking the same journey, we get a continuous current through the diode. A
series resistor is used to limit the amount of forward current.
HII MultiSim Figure 2-14
V.
++ Ο
Forward bias. d Θ ΘD+ ①ΘRw
Θ
ΘΘ
Θ
ΘΘ
Chapter 2
111I MultiSim Figure 2-15 Reverse bias.
d
Θ Θ Θ Θ Θ
Θ
Θ Θ Θ
Θ
Θ
R
ת
Θ
Θ
What to Remember
Current flows easily in a forward-biased diode. As long as the applied voltage is
greater than the barrier potential, there will be a large continuous current in the
circuit. In other words, if the source voltage is greater than 0.7 V, a silicon diode
allows a continuous cument in the forward direction.
2-10 Reverse Bias
Turn the dc source around and you get Fig. 2-15. This time, the negative battery
terminal is connected to the p side, and the positive battery terminal to the n side.
This connection produces what is called reverse bias.
Depletion Layer Widens
The negative battery terminal attracts the holes, and the positive battery terminal
attracts the free electrons. Because of this, holes and free electrons flow away
from the junction. Therefore, the depletion layer gets wider.
How wide does the depletion layer get in Fig. 2-16a? When the holes and
electrons move away from the junction, the newly created ions increase the difference of potential across the depletion layer. The wider the depletion layer, the
greater the difference of potential. The depletion layer stops growing when its difference of potential equals the applied reverse voltage. When this happens, electrons and holes stop moving away from the junction.
Figure 2-16 (a) Depletion layer; (b) increasing reverse bias widens depletion layer.
Semiconductors
Θ
ΘΘ
Θ
Θ
Ỏ Ở
(a)
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ Θ
Θ Θ
Θ Θ
V
Θ
(9)
41
reverse minority saturation current.
Figure 2-17 Thermal production of free electron and hole in depletion layer produces
p n
Θ Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ Θ Θ Θ
Θ Θ
V
42
Fig.
Sometimes the depletion layer is shown as a shaded region like that of
2-16b. Thewidth of this shaded region is proportional to the reverse voltage.
As the reverse voltage increases, the depletion layer gets wider.
Minority-Carrier Current
Is there any current after the depletion layer stabilizes? Yes. A small current exists
with reverse bias. Recall that thermal energy continuously creates pairs of free
electrons and holes. This means that a few minority carriers exist on both sides of
the junction. Most of these recombine with the majority carriers. But those inside
the depletion layer may exist long enough to get across the junction. When this
happens, a small current flows in the external circuit.
Figure 2-17 illustrates the idea. Assume that thermal energy has created
a free electron and hole near thejunction. The depletion layer pushes thefree electron to the right, forcing one electron to leave the right end of the crystal. The hole
in the depletion layer is pushed to the left. This extra hole on the p side lets one
electron enter the left end of the crystal and fall into a hole. Since thermal energy
is continuously producing electron-hole pairs inside the depletion layer, asmall
continuous current flows in the external circuit.
The reverse current caused by the thermally produced minority carriers
is called the saturation current. In equations, the saturation current is symbolized by Is. The name saturation means that we cannot get more minority-carrier
current than is produced by the thermal energy. In other words, increasing the
reverse voltage will not increase the number of thermally created minority
carriers.
Surface-Leakage Current
Besides the thermally produced minority-carrier current, does any other current
exist in a reverse-biased diode? Yes. A small current flows on the surface of the
crystal. Known as the surface-leakage current, it is caused by surface impurities
and imperfections in the crystal structure.
What to Remember
The reverse current in a diode consists of a minority-carrier current and a
surface-leakage current. In most applications, the reverse current in a silicon
diode is so small that you don't even notice it. The main idea to remember is this:
Current is approximately zero in a reverse-biased silicon diode.
Chapter 2
Figure 2-18 Avalanche produces many free electrons and holes in on laye
d
GOOD TO KNOW
Exceeding the breakdown voltage
of a diode does not necessarily
mean that you will destroy the
diode. As long as the product of
reverse voltage and reverse current
does not exceed the diode's power
rating, the diode willrecover fully.
Figure 2-19. The process of avalanche
is a geometric progression: 1, 2, 4, 8,
Semiconducto
2-11 Breakdown
Diodes have maximum voltage ratings. There is a limit to how much reverse voltage a diode can withstand before it is destroyed. If you continue increasing the
reverse voltage, you will eventually reach the breakdown voltage of the diode.
For many diodes, breakdown voltage is at least 50 V. The breakdown voltage is
shown on the data sheet for the diode. We will discuss data sheets in Chap. 3.
Once the breakdown voltage is reached, a large number of the minority
carriers suddenly appears in the depletion layer and the diode conducts heavily.
Where do the carriers come from? They are produced by the avalanche.
effect (see Fig. 2-18), which occurs at higher reverse voltages. Here is what happens. As usual, there is a small reverse minority-carrier current. When the reverse
voltage increases, it forces the minority carriers to move more quickly. These
minority carriers collide with the atoms of the crystal. When these minority carriers
have enough energy, they can knock valence electrons loose, producing free electrons. These new minority carriers then join the existing minority carriers to
collide with other atoms. The process is geometric, because one free electron
liberates one valence electron to get two free electrons. These two free electrons
then free two more electrons to get four free electrons. The process continues until
the reverse current becomes huge.
Figure 2-19 shows a magnified view of the depletion layer. The reverse
bias forces the free electron to move to the right. As it moves, the electron gains
speed. The larger the reverse bias, the faster the electron moves. If the high-speed
electron has enough energy, it can bump the valence electron of the first atom into
a larger orbit. This results in two free electrons. Both of these then accelerate and
go on to dislodge two more electrons. In this way, the number of minority carriers
may become quite large and the diode can conduct heavily.
The breakdown voltage of a diode depends on how heavily doped the
diode is. With rectifier diodes (the most common type), the breakdown voltage is
usually greater than 50 V. Summary Table 2-1 illustrates the difference between a
forward- and reverse-biased diode.
2-12 Energy Levels
To a good approximation, we can identify the total energy of an electron with the
size of its orbit. That is, we can think of each radius of Fig. 2-20a as equivalent to
an energy level in Fig. 2-20b. Electrons in the smallest orbit are on the first energy
level; electrons in the second orbit are on the second energy level; and so on.
Higher Energy in Larger Orbit
Since an electron is attracted by the nucleus, extra energy is needed to lift an electron into a larger orbit. When an electron is moved from the first to the second
orbit, it gains potential energy with respect to the nucleus. Some of the external
forces that can lift an electron to higher energy levels are heat, light, and voltage.
43
Summary Table 2–1 Diode Bias
V, polarity
Current flow.
Vs
=
P
Forward bias
Depletion layer
N
R
Large
current
Vs
Reverse bias
Depletion layer
N
Small
current
R
(+) to P material
(-) to N material
Large forward current if
V, > 0.7 V
(-) to P materials
(+) to N material
Small reverse current (saturation current
and surface leakage current) if
V, < breakdown voltage
Wide Depletion layer Narrow
Figure 2-20 Energý level-is
proportional to orbit size. (a) Orbits;
(b) energy levels.
3
2
(a)
NUCLEUS
1
EDGE OF NUCLEUS
(b)
For instance, assume that an outside force lifts the electron from the first
to the second orbit in Fig. 2-20a. This electron has more potential energy because
it is farther from the nucleus (Fig. 2-20b). It is like an object above the earth: The
higher the object, the greater its potential energy with respect to the earth. If
released, the object falls farther and does more workwhen it hits the earth.
Falling Electrons Radiate Light
After an electron has moved into a larger orbit, it may fall back to a lower energy
level. If it does, it will give up its extra energy in the form of heat, light, and other
radiation.
In a light-emitting diode (LED), the applied voltage lifts the electrons to
higher energy levels. When these electrons fall back to lower energy levels, they
give off light. Depending on the material used, the light is red, green, orange, or
blue. Some LEDs produce infrared radiation (invisible), which is useful in burglar
alarm systems.
Energy Bands
When a silicon atom is isolated, the orbit of an electron is inffuenced only by the
charges of the isolated atom. This results in energy levels like the lines of
Fig. 2-20b. But when silicon atoms are in a crystal, the orbit of each electron is
also influenced by the charges of many other silicon atoms. Since each electron
has a unique position inside the crystal, no two electrons see exactly the same pattern of surrounding charges. Because ofthis, the orbit of each electron is different;
or, to put it another way, the energy level of each electron is different.
Figure 2-21 shows what happens to the energy levels. All electrons
in
first orbit have slightly different energy levels because no two electrons see
44
Chapter ter 2
Figure 2-21 Intrinsic semiconductor and its energ rgy bands.
25°C
++++
CONDUCTION BAND
Ο
VALENCE BAND
o
GOOD TO KNOМ
For both n- and p-type
semiconductors, an increase in
temperature produces an identical
increase in the number of minority
and majority current carriers.
S -273°C
2d BAND
1st BAND
exactly the same charge environment. Since there are billions of first-orbit electrons, the slightly different energy levels form a cluster or band of energy. Similarly, the billions of second-orbit electrons, all with slightly different energy levels, form the second energy band-and so on for remaining bands.
Another point. As you know, thermal energy produces a few free electrons and holes. The holes remain in the valence band, but the free electrons go to
the next-higher energy band,which is called the conduction band. This is why
Fig. 2-21 shows a coriduction band with some free electrons and a valence band
with some holes. When the switch is closed, a small current exists in the pure
semiconductor. The free electrons move through the conduction band, and holes
move through the valence band.
n-Type Energy Bands
Figure 2-22 shows the energy bands for an n-type semiconductor. As you would
expect, the majority carriers are the free electrons in the conduction band, and the
minority carriers are the holes in the valence band. Since the switch is closed in
Fig. 2-22, the majority carriers flow to the left, and the minority carriers flow to
the right.
p-Type Energy Bands
Figure 2-23 shows the energy bands for a p-type semiconductor. Here you see a
reversal of the carrier roles. Now, the majority carriers are the holes in the valence
Figure 2-22 n-type semiconductor and its energy bands. Figure 2-23 p-type semiconductor and its energy bands.
<73°C
Semiconductors
CONDUCTION BANƠ
VALENCE BAND
2d BAND
++++
CONDUCTION BAND
이
VALENCE BAND
25°C
I1st-BAND
-273°С
2d BAND
11st BAND
45
band, and the minority carriers are the free electrons in the conduction band. Since
the switch is closed in Fig. 2-23, the majority carriers flow to.the right, and the
minority carriers flow to the left.
2-13 The Energy Hill
To understand more advanced types of semiconductor devices, you will need to
know how energy levels control the action of a pnjunction.
Before Diffusion
Assuming an abrupt junction (one that suddenly changes from p to n material),
what does the energy diagram look like? Figure 2-24a shows the energy bands
before electrons have diffused across the junction. The p side has many holes in
the valence band, and the n side has many electrons in the conduction band. But
why are the p bands slightly higher than the in bands?
The p side has trivalent atoms with a core charge of +3, shown in
Fig. 2-24b. On the other hand, the n side has pentavalent atoms with a core charge
of +5 (Fig. 2-24c). A +3 core attracts anelectron less than a +5 core does. Therefore, the orbits of a trivalent atom (p side) are slightly larger than those of a pentavalent atom (n side). This is why the p bands of Fig. 2-24a are slightly higher
than the n bands.
An abrupt junction like that of Fig. 2-24a is an idealization because the
p side cannot suddenly end where the n side begins. A manufactured diode has a
gradual change from one material to the other. For this reason, Fig. 2-25a is a
more realistic energy diagram of à junction diode.
When the diode is first formed, there is no depletion layer (Fig. 2-25a). In this
At Equilibrium
case, free electrons will diffuse across the junction. In terms of energy levels, this
means that the electrons near the top of the n conduction band move across the
junction, as previously described. Soon after crossing the junction, a free electron
will recombine with a hole. In other words, the electron will fall from the conduction band to the valence band. As it does, it emits heat, light, and other radia
tion. This recombination not only creates the depletion layer, it also chananges the
Figure 2-24
(c)n-type atom has smaiter orbits,equivalent to lower energy level.
(a) Energy bands ofabrupt junction before diffusion; (b) p-type atom has larger orbits, equivalent to higher ener nergy level;
46
ENERGY
JUNCTION
CONDUCTION
BAND
(a)
n
VALENCE
BAND
+3
b(
CONDUCTION-BAND ORBIT
VALENCE-BAND
ORBIT
+5)
(3)
Chapter 2
Semicondu dctors
Figure 2-25 (a) Energy bands before diffusion; (b) energy bands after depiletion layer is
formed; (c) p-type atom before diffusion has smaller orbit; (d) p-type atom after diffusion
has larger orbit, equivalent to higher energy level.
ENERGY
CONDUCTION BAND
ENERGY
DEPLETION LAYER
d d
HOLE
VALENCE BAND
(a)
CONDUCTION-BAND
ORBIT
FILLED
HOLE
(9)
CONDUCTION-BAND
ORBIT
+3
(0)
+3
(d)
energy levels at the junction by increasing the energy level difference petween the
pand'n bands.
Figure 2-25b shows the energy diagram after the depletion layer is created. The p bands have moved up with respect to the n bands. As you can see,
the bottom of each p band is level with the top of the corresponding n band.
This means that electrons on the n side no longer have enough energergy to get
across the junction. What follows is a simplified explanation of why the he p band
moves up.
Figure 2-25c shows a conduction-band orbit around one of the trivalent
atoms before diffusion has occurred. When an electron diffuses across the junction, it falls into the hole of a trivalent atom (Fig. 2-25d). This extra electron in the
valence orbit will push the conduction-band orbit farther away from the trivalent
atom, as shown in Fig. 2-25d. Therefore, any new electrons coming into this arerea
will need more energy than before to travel in a conduction-band orbit. Stated an
other way, the larger conduction-band orbit means that the energy level has in
creased. This is equivalent to saying that the p bands move up with respect to the
nbands after the depletion layer has built up.
At equilibriun, conduction-band electrons on the n side travel in orbits
not quite large enough to match the p side orbits (Fig. 2-25b). In other wwords, electrons on the n side do not have enough energy to get across the junction. To an
electron trying to diffuse across the junction, the path it must trarvel looks like a
hill, an energy hill (see Fig. 2-25b). The electron cannot climb this hill unless it
receives energy from an outside source. This energy source e may be a voltage
sourcece, but it can also be heat, light, or other radiation. Do notot think ofthe energy
47
48
Figure 2-26. Forward bias gives free electrons more energy, equivalent to higher energy.
level.
ENERGY
°
d
A!
hill as'a "physical" hill. Instead, think of it as the necessary higher energy level for
the valence electrons to "rise" to before they can cross the depletion layer.
Forward Bias
Forward bias lowers the energy hill (see Fig. 2-26). In other words, the battery
increases the energy level of the free electrons; this is equivalent to forcing
the n band upward. Because of this, free electrons have enough energy to enter the
p region. Soon after entering the p region, they fall into holes les (path A). As valence
electrons, they continue moving toward the left end of the crystal; this is equivalent to holes moving toward thejunction.
Some holes penetrate the n region as shown in Fig. 2-26. In this case,
conduction-band electrons can follow recombination path B. Regardless of where
the recombination takes place, the result is the same. Asteady stream of free electrons moves toward the junction and falls into holes near the junction. The captured electrons (now valence electrons) move left in a steady stream through the
holes in the p region. In this way, we get a continuous flow of electrons through
the diode.
Incidentally, when free electrons fall from the conduction band to the valence band, they radiate their excess energy in the form of heat andlight. With an
ordinary diode, the radiation is heat energy, which serves no useful purpose. But
with an LED, the radiation can be light such as red, green, blue, or orange. LEDs
are widely used as visual indicators on electronic instruments, computer keyboards, and consumer equipment.
2-14 Barrier Potential and
Temperature
The junction temperature is the temperature inside a diode, right at the pn junction. The ambient temperature is different. It is the temperature of the air outside
the diode, the airthat surrounds the diode.When the diode is conducting, the junction temperature is higher than the ambient temperature because of the heat created by recombination.
The barrier potential depends on the junction temperature. Anincrease in
junction temperature cre creates more free electrons and holes in the doped regions.
As these charges diffuse into the depletion layer, it becomes narrower. This means
that there is less barrier potential at higherjunctiontemperatures.
Chapter 2
Semiconductors
Before continuing, we need to define a symbol:
A= the change in (2-2)
The Greek letter A (delta) stands for "the change in." For instance, AVmeans the
change in voltage, and AT means the change in temperature. The ratio AVIAT
stands for the change in voltage divided by the change in temperature.
Now we can state a rule for estimating the change in barrier potential:
The barrier potential of asilicon diode decreases by 2 mV for each degree Celsius
rise.
As a derivation:
AV
AT
= -2 mV/°C
By rearranging:
(2-3)
AV = (-2 mV/°C) AT
With this, we can calculate the barrier potential at any junction temperature.
(2-4)
Example 2-5
Assuming a barrier potential of 0.7 V at an ambient temperature of 25°C, what is
the barrier potential of a silicon diode when the junction temperature is 100°C?
At 0°C?
SOLUTION When the junction temperature is 100°C, the change in barrier
potential is:
AV= (-2 mV/°C) AT = (--2 mV/°C)(100°C - 25°C)=-150 mV
This tells us that the barrier potential decreases 150 mv from its room temperature value. So, it equals:
VB= 0.7 V - 0.15 V = 0.55 V
When the junction temperature is 0°C, the change in barrier potential is:
AV =(-2mV/°C) AT =(-2 mV/°C)(0°C - 25°C) = 50mV
This tells. us that the barrier potential increases 50 mV from its room
temperature value. So, it equals:
VB 0.7 V + 0.05 V = 0.75 V.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 2-5 What would be the barrier potential in
Example 2-5 when the junction temperature is 50°C?
49
50
2-15 Reverse-Biased Diode
Let's discuss a few advanced ideas about a reverse-biased diode. To begin with,
the depletion layer changes in width when the reverse voltage changes. Let us see
what this implies.
Transient Current
When the reverse voltage increases, holes and electrons move away from the
junction. As the free electrons and holes move away from the junction, they leave
positive and negative ions behind. Therefore, the depletion layer gets wider.
The greater the reverse bias, the wider the depletion layer becomes. While the
depletion layer is adjusting to its new width, a current flows in the external circuit.
This transient current drops to zero after the depletion layer stops growing.
The amount of time the transient current flows depends on the RC time
constant of the external circuit. It typically happens in a matter of nanoseconds.
Because of this, you can ignore the effects of the transient current below approximately 10 MHz.
Reverse Saturation Current
As discussed earlier, forward-biasing a diode raises the n band and allows free.
electrons to cross the junction. Reverse bias has the opposite effect: It widens the
depletion layer and lowers the n band; as shown in Fig. 2-27.
Here is the energy viewpoint on reverse saturation. Suppose that thermal
energy creates a hole and free electron inside the depletion layer, as shown in
Fig. 2-27. The free electron at A and the hole at B can now contribute to reverse
current. Because of the reverse bias, the free electron will move to the right,
effectively pushing an electron out of the right end of the diode. Similarly, the
hole will move to the left. This extrax hole on the p side lets an electron enter the
left end of the crystal.
The higher the junction temperature, the greater the saturation current. Auseful approximation to remember is this: Is doubles for each 10°C rise. As a derivation,
Percent AIs = 100% for a 10°C increase (2-5)
in In words, the change in saturation current is 100 percent for each 10°C rise
temperature. If the changes in temperature are less than 10°C, you can use this
equivalent rule:
Percent Als = 7% per°C (2-6)
In words, the change in saturation current is 7 percent for each Celsius degree rise.
This 7 percent solution is a close approximation of the 10° rule.
Figure 2-27 Thermal energy produces free electron and hole inside depletion layer.
이
이
A
이
이
o
。
B
Chapter 2
Figure 2-28 (o) Atoms on the surface
of a crystal have no neighbors; (b) surface
of crystal has holes.
y
0=0=0=0
11 F
0=0=0=0
이
(a)
+
0=
p n
(b)
=
Silicon versus Germanium
In a silicon atom, the distance between the valence band and the conduction band
is called the energy gap. When thermal energy produces free electrons and holes, it
has to give the valence electrons enough energy to jump into the conduction band.
The larger the energy gap, the more difficult it is for thermal energy to produce
electron-hole pairs. Fortunately, silicon has a large energy gap; this means that
thermal energy does not produce many electron-hole pairs at normal temperatures.
In a germanium atom the valence band is much closer to the conduction
band. In other words, germanium has a much smaller energy gap than silicon has.
For this, reason, thermal energy produces many more electron-hole pairs in germanium devices. This is the fatal flaw mentioned earlier. The excessive reverse
current of germanium devices precludes their widespread use in modern computers, consumer electronics, and communications circuits.
Surface-Leakage Current
We discussed surface-leakage current briefly in Sec. 2-10. Recall that it is a reverse current on the surface of the crystal. Here is an explanation of why surfacеleakage current exists. Suppose that the atoms at the top and bottom of Fig. 2-28a
are on the surface of the crystal. Since these atoms have no neighbors, they have
only six electrons in the valence orbit, implying two holes in each surface atom.
Visualize these holes along the surface of the crystal shown in Fig. 2-28b. Then
you can see that the skin of a crystal is like a p-type semiconductor. Because of
this, electrons can enter the left end of the crystal, travel through the surface holes,
and leave the right end of the crystal. In this way, we get a small reverse current
along the surface.
The surface-leakage current is directly proportional to the reverse vollage. For instance, if you double the reverse voltage, the surface-leakage current
Ist doubles. We can define the surface-leakage resistance as follows:
VR
RSL ISE (2-7)
Semiconductors
Example 2-6
A silicon diode has a saturation current of 5 nA at 25°C. What is the saturation
current at 100°C
SOLUTION The change in temperature is:
AT= 100°C - 25°C = 75°C
With Eq. (2-5), there are seven doublings between 25°C and 95°C:
Is = (27)(5 nA) = 640 nА
With Eq. (2-6), there are an additional 5° between 95°C and 100°C:
Is = (1.075)(640 nA) = 898 nA
PRACTICE PROBLEM 2-6 Using the same diode as in Example 2-6, what
would be the saturation current at 80°C?
51
Example 2-7
If the surface-leakage current is 2 nA for a reverse voltage of 25 V,what is the
surface-leakage current for a reverse voltage of 35 V?
SOLUTION There are two ways to solve this problem. First, calculate the
surface-leakage resistance:
25 V
KSt 2nA=
= 12.5(10) 2
Then, calculate the surface-leakage current at 35 V as follows:
35 V
= 2.8 nA
I5L 12.5(109(
Here is a second method. Since surface-leakage current is directly
proportional to reverse voltage:
35 V
SL= 25 V
2 nA = 2.8 пА
PRACTICE PROBLEM 2-7 In Example 2-7, what is the surface-leakage
current for a reverse voltage of 100 V?
Summary
SEC. 2-1 CONDUCTORS
A neutral copper atom has only one
electron in its outer orbit. Since this single
electron can be easily dislodged from its
atom, it is called a free electron, Copper is
a good conductor because the slightest
voltage causes free electrons toto flow from
one atom to the next.
SEC. 2-2 SEMICONDUCIORS
Silicon is the most widely used
semiconductor material. An isolated
silicon atom has four electrons in its-outer
or valence orbit. The number of electrons
in the valence orbit is the key to
conductivity. Conductors have one
valence electron, semiconductors have
four valence electrons, and insulators
have eight valence electrons.
52
SEC. 2-3 SILICON CRYSTALS
Each silicon aton in acrystal has its four
valence electrons plus four more electrons
that are shared by the neighboring atoms.
At room temperature, apure silicon
crystal has only a few thermally produced
free electrons and holes. The amount of
time between the creation and
recombination of a free electron and a
hole is called the lifetime..
SEC. 2-4 INTRINSIC
SEMICONDUCTORS
An intrinsic semiconductor is a pure
semiconductor. When an external voltage
is applied to the intrinsic semiconductor,
the free electrons flow toward the positive
battery terminal and the holes flow
toward the negative battery terminal.
SEC. 2-5 TWO TYPES OF FLOW
Two types of carrier flow exist in an
intrinsic semiconductor. First, there is the
flow of free electrons through larger
orbits (conduction band). Second, there is
the flow ofholes through smaller orbits
(valence band).
SEC. 2-6 DOPING A
SEMICONDUCTOR
Doping increases the conductivity of a
semiconductor.. A doped semiconductor is
called an extrinsic semiconductor. When
an intrinsie semiconductor is doped with
pentavalent (donor) atoms, it has more
free electrons than holes.When an
intrinsic semiconductor is doped with
trivalent (acceptor) atoms, it has more
holes than free electrons.
Chapter 2
SEC. 2-7 TWO TYPES OF
EXTRINSIC
SEMICONDUCTORS
In an n-type semiconductor the free
electrons are the majority carriers, and the
holes are the minority carriers. In a p-type
semiconductor the holes are the majority
carriers, and the free electrons are the
minority carriers.
SEC. 2-8 THE UNBIASED DIODE
An unbiased diode has a depletion layer at
the pn junction. The ions in this depletion
layer produce abarrier potential. At room
temperature, this barrier potential is
approximately 0.7 Vfor a silicon diode
and 0.3 V for a germanium diode.
SEC. 2-9 FORWARD BIAS
When an external voltage opposes the
barrier potential, the diode is forwardbiased. If the applied voltage is greater
than the barrier potential, the current is
large. In other words, current flows easily
in a forward-biased diode.
SEC. 2-10 REVERSE BIAS
When an external voltage aids the barrier
potential, the diode is reverse-biased. The
width of the depletion layer increases
when the reverse voltage increases. The
current is approximately zero.
SEC. 2-11 BREAKDOWN
Too much reverse voltage will produce
either avalanche or zener effect. Then, the
large breakdown current destroys the
diode. In general, diodes are never operated
in the breakdown region. The only
exception is the zener diode, a specialpurpose diode discussed in a later chapter.
SEC. 2-12 ENERGY LEVELS
The larger the orbit, the higher the energy
level of an electron. If an outside force
raises an electron to a higher energy level,
the electron will emit energy when it falls
back to its original orbit:
SEC. 2-13 THE ENERGY HILL
The barrier potential of a diode looks like
an energy hill. Electrons attempting to
cross the junction need to have enough
energy to climb this hill. An exteternal
voltage source that forward-biases the
diode gives electrons the energy required
to pass through the depletion layer,
SEC. 2-14 BARRIER POTENTIAL
AND TEMPERATURE
When the junction temperature increases,
the depletion layer becomes narrower and
the barrier potential decreases. It will
decrease approximately 2 mV for each
degree Celsius increase.
SEC. 2-15 REVERSE-BIASED
DIODE
There are three components of reverse
current in a diode. First, there is the
transient current that occurs when the
reverse voltage changes. Second, there is
the minority-carrier current, also called
the saturation current because it is
independent of the reverse voltage.
Third, there is the surface-leakage
current. It increases when the reverse
voltage increases.
Definitions
(2-2) A = the change in
Laws
(2-1) Valence saturation: n = 8
Derivations
(2-3) =-2-2 mV/°C. AT
(2-4) AV= (-2 mV/°C) AT
Student Assignments
1. The nucleus of a copper atom
contains how many protons?
a. 1
b. 4
c. 18
d. 29
Semiconductors
2.
(2-7) RSL=
VR
5
(2-5) Percent A/s = 100% for a 10°C increase
(2-6) Percent A/5 = 7% per°C
The net charge of aneutral copper
atom is
a. O
b. +1
c. -1
d. +4
3. Assume the valence electron is
removed from a copper atom. The
net charge of the atom becomes
a. 0
b. +1
c.1
d. +4
53
4. The valence electron ofacopper
atom experiences what kind of
attraction toward the nucleus?
a. None
b. Weak
c. Strong
d. Impossible to say
5. How many valence electrons does
a silicon atom have?
a. O
b. 1
c. 2
d. 4
6. Which is the most widely used
semiconductor?
a. Copper
b. Germanium
c. Silicon
d. None.of the above
12. At room temperature an intrinsie
silicon crystal acts approximately
like
a. A battery
b. A conductor
c. An insulator
d. A piece of copper wire
13. The amount of time between the
creation of a hole and its
disappearance is called
a. Doping
b. Lifetime
c. Recombination
d. Valence
14. The valence electron of a
conductor can also be called a
a. Bound electron
b. Free electron
c. Nucleus
20. Absolute zero temperature
equals
a.273°C
b. .0°C
c. 25°C
d. 50°C
21. At absolute zero temperature
an intrinsie semiconductor
has
a. A few free electrons
b. Many holes
c.. Many free electrons
d. No holes or free electrons
22. At room temperature an intrinsic
semiconductor has
a. A few free electrons' and holes
b. Many holes
c. Many free electrons
d. No holes
23. The number of free electrons
and holes in an intrinsic
semiconductor decreases when
the temperature
b. 2
d. Proton
7. How many protons does the 15. A conductor has how many types
nucleus of a 'silicon atom contain? of flow?
a. 4
a. 1
b. 14
c. 29
d. 32
8. Silicon atoms combine into an 16.
orderly pattern called a
a. Covalent bond
b. Crystał
c. Semiconductor
d. Valence orbit
9. An intrinsic semiconductor has
some holes in it at room temperature.What causes these holes?
a. Doping
b. Free electrons
c. Thermal energy
d. Valence electrons
.When an electron is moved to a
higher orbit level, its energy level
with respect to the nucleus
a. Increases
b. Decreases
c. Remains the same
c. 3
d.4
A semiconductor has how many
types of flow?
a. 1
b: 2
c. 3
d. 4
17. When a voltage is applied to а
semiconductor, holes will flow
a. Away from the negative potential
b. Toward the positive potential
c. In the external circuit
d. None of the above
18. For semiconductor material, its
valence orbit is saturated when it
contains
a. 1 electron
a. Decreases
b. Increases
c. Stays the same
d. None of the above
24. The flow of valence electrons to
the right means that holes are
flowing to the
a. Left
b. Right
c. Either way
d. None of the above
25. Holes act like
a. Atoms
b. Crystals
C. Negative charges
d. Positive charges
26. Trivalent atoms have how many
valence electrons?
b. Equal (+) and (-) ions
a. 1
c. 4 electrons
b. 3
d. 8 electrons
C. 4
d. Depends on the type of atom 19. In an intrinsic semiconductor, the d. 5
number of holes
11. The merging of a free electron and
a. Equals the number of free electrons
a hole is called
27. An acceptor atom has how many
valence electrons?
b. Is greater than the number of free
a. Covalent bonding electrons
a. 1
b. Lifetime
c. Is less than the number of free
b. 3
c. Recombination electrons C. 4
d. Thermal energy d. None of the above d. 5
54 Chapter 2
28. If you wanted to produce an
n-type semiconductor, which of
these would you use?
a. Acceptor atoms
b. Donor atoms
c. Pentavalent impurity
d. Silicon
29. Electrons are the minority
carriers in which type of
semiconductor?
a. Extrinsic
b. Intrinsic
c. n-type
d. p-type
30. How many free electrons does
a p-type semiconductor
contain?
a. Many
b. None
c. Only those produced by thermal
energy
d. Same number as holes
31. Silver is the best conductor. How
manyvalence electrons do you
think it has?
a. 1
32.
b. 4
C. 18
d. 29
Suppose an intrinsic
semiconductor has 1 billion free
electrons at room temperature. If
the temperature drops to 0°C, how
many holes are there?
a. Fewer than 1 billion
b. 1 billion
c. More than 1 billion
d. Impossible to say
33. An external voltage source is
applied to a p-type semiconductor,
If the left end of the crystal is
positive, which way do the
majority carriers flow?
a. Left
b. Right
c. Neither
d. Impossible to say
35. Which of the following is.
approximately equal to room
temperature?
a. 0°C
b. 25°C
c. 50°C
d. 75°C
36. How many electrons are there in
the valence orbit of a silicon atom
within a crystal?
a.
b. 4
c. 8
d. 14
37. Negative ions are atoms that
38.
have
a. Gained a proton
b. Lost a proton
c. Gained an electron
d. Lost an electron
Which of the following describes
an n-type semiconductor?
a. Neutral
b. Positively charged
c. Negatively charged
d. Has many holes
39. A p-type semiconductor contains
40.
41.
34. Which of the following doesn't fit 42.
in the group?
a. Conductor
b. Semiconductor
holes and
a. Positive ions
b. Negative ions
c. Pentavalent atoms
d. Donor atoms
Which of the following describes
a p-type semiconductor?
a. Neutral
b. Positively charged
c. Negatively charged
d. Has many free electrons
As compared to a germanium
diode, a silicon diode's reverse
saturation current is
a. Equal at high temperatures
b. Lower
c. Equal at lower temperatures
43. What is the barrier potential
of a silicon diode at room
temperature?
a. 0.3 V
b. 0.7 V
c. 1V
d. 2 mV per degree Celsius
44. When comparing the energy
gap of germanium and silicon
atoms, a silicon atom's energy
gap is
a. About the same
b. Lower
Higher
d. Unpredictable
45. In a silicon diode the reverse
current is usually
a. Very small
b. Very large
c. Zero
d. In the breakdown region
46. While maintaining a constant
temperature, a silicon diode
has its reverse-bias voltage
increased. The diode's saturation
current will
a. Increaše
b. Decrease
c. Remain the same
d. Equal its surface-leakage
current
47. The voltage where avalanche
occurs is called the
a. Barrier potential
b. Depletion layer
c. Knee voltage
d. Breakdown voltage
48. The energy hill of diode's pn
junction will decrease when the
diode is
a. Forward biased
b. First formed
c. Reverse biased
d. Not conducting
49. When the reverse voltage
decreases from 10 to 5 V, the
depletion layer
d. Higher
What causes the depletion a. Becomes smaller
layer?
a. Doping
b. Recombination
b. Becormes larger
c. Is unaffected
d. Breaks down
c. Four valence electrons
d. Crystal structure
Semiconductors
c. Barrier potential
d. lons
55
n0. When a diode is forward-biased,
the recombination of free
rons and holes may produce
light
c. Radiation
d. All of the above
51. A reverse voltage of 10 V is across
a diode.What is the voltage
across the depletion layer?
52. The energy gap in a silicon atom is
the distance between the valence
53.
band and the
a. Nucleus
b. Conduction band
c. Atom's core
d. Positive ions
The reverse saturation current
doubles when the junction
temperature increases
54. The surface-leakage current
doubles when the reverse voltage
increases
a. 7%
b. 100%
c. 200%
d. 2 mV
a. OV a. 1°C
b. 0.7 V b. 2°C
c. 10V c. 4°C
d. None of the above d. 10°C
Problems
2-1 What is the net charge of a copper atom if it gains two
electrons?
2-2 What is the net charge ofasilicon atom if it gains three
valence electrons?
2-3 Classify each of the following as conductor or
semiconductor:
2-6 Classify each ofthe following as n-type or p-type
semiconductors:
a. Doped by acceptor atoms
b. Crystal with pentavalent impurities
c. Majority carriers are holes
d. Donor atoms were added to crystal
e. Minority carriers are free electrons a. Germanium
b. Silver 2-7
c. Silicon
A designer will be using a silicon diode over a
temperáture range of 0° to 75°C. What are the minimum
and maximum values of barrier potential?
d. Gold
2-8
2-4 If a pure silicon crystal has 500,000 holes inside it, how
many free electrons does it have?
If a silicon diode has a saturation current of 10 nA at 25°
to 75°C, what are the minimum and maximum values of
saturation current?
2-5 Adiode is forward blased. If the current is 5 mA through 2-9
the n side, what is the current through each of the
foliowing?
a. pside
b. External connecting wires
c. Junction
A diode has a surface-leakage current of 10 nA when the
reverse voltage is 10 V.What is the surface-leakage
current if the reverse voltage is increased to 100 V?
Critical Thinking|
2-10 A silicon diode has a reverse current of 5 μA at 25°C
and 100 μA at 100°C. What are values of the
saturation current and the surface-leakage current
at 25°C?
2-11 Devices with pn junctions are used to build computers. The
speed of computers depends on how fast a diode can be
turned off and on. Based on what you have learned about
reverse bias, what can we do to speed up a computer?
Job Interview Questions
A team of experts in electronics created these questions. In
most cases, the text provides enough information to answer
all questions. Occasionally, you may come across a term that is
not familiar. If this happens, look up the term in a technical
dictionary. Also, a question may appear that is not covered in
56
this text, In this case, you may wish to do some library
research.
1. Tell me why copper is a good conductor of electricity.
2. How does a semiconductor differ from a conductor?
Include sketches in your explanation.
Chapter 2
3. Tell me all you know about holes and how they differ from
free electrons. Include some drawings.
4. Give me the basic idea of doping semiconductors, I want to
see some sketches that support your explanation.
5. Show me, by drawing and explaining the action, why
current exists in aforward-biased diode.
6. Tell mewhy a very smali current exists in a reverse-biased
diode.
7. A reverse-biased semiconductor diode will break down
under certain conditions. I want you to describe avalanche
in enough detail so that I can understand it.
8. I want to know why a light-emitting diode produces light.
Tell me about it.
9. Do hotes flow in a conductor? Why or why not?What
happens to holes when they reach the end of a
semiconductor?
10. What is surface leakage current?
11. Why is recombination important in a diode?
12. How does extrinsic silicon differ from intrinsic silicon, and
why is the difference important?
13. In your own words, describe the action that takes place
when the pn junction is initially created. Your discussion
should include the formation of the depletion layer.
14. In a pnjunction diode, which of the charge carriers move?
Holes or free electrons?
Self-Test Answers
1. d 19. a 37. C
2. a 20. a 38. a
3.
4.
5.
P
q
q
21. d 39. b
22. a 40. a
23. a 41. b
6. c 24. a 42. b
7. b 25. d 43. b
8. b 26. b 44. C
9.
3
27. b 45. a
10. a 28. b 46. C
11. 29. d 47.
P
12. C 30. C 48. a
13. b 31 a 49. a
14. 32. a 50.
p
15. a 33. b 51. c
16.
a
34. a 52. b
17. 35. b 53.
p
18. 36. C 54. b
Practice Problem Answers
2-4 Approximately 5 million holes 2-6 Is224 nA 2-7 ist = 8 nA
2-5 Vg 0.65 V
Semiconductors 57
chapter 3 Diode Theory
This chapter continues our study of diodes. After discussing the diode
curve, we look at approximations of a diode. We need approximations
because exact analysis is very tedious and time-consuming in most
situations. For instance, an ideal approximation is usually ate for
troubleshooting, and a second approximation gives quick and easy
solutions in many cases. Beyond this, we can use a third
approximation for better accuracy or a computer solution for almost
exact answers.
Chapter Outline
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
图
Draw a diode symbol and label the
anode and cathode.
Draw a diode curve and label all
significant points and areas.
'Describe the ideal diode.
Describe the second approximation.
Describe the third approximation.
3-1 Basic Ideas List four basic characteristics of
diodes shown on a data sheet.
3-2 The Ideal Diode
3-3 The Second Approximation
Describe how to test a diode using a
DMM and VOM.
3-4 The Third Approximation
3-5 Troubleshooting
3-6 Up-Down Circuit Analysis
3-7 Reading a Data Sheet
3-8 How to Calculate Bulk
Resistance
3-9 DC Resistance of a Diode
3-10
3-11
Load Lines
Surface-Mount Diodes
Vocabulary
anode
bulk resistance
cathode
ideal diode
knee voltage
linear device
load line
maximum forward current
nonlinear device
ohmic resistance
power rating
up-down analysis
59
09
3-1 Basic Ideas
Anordinary resistor is a linear device because the graph ofits current versus voltage is a straight line. A diode is diffèrent. It is a nonlinear device because the
graph of its current versus voltage is not a straight line. The reason is the barrier
potential. When the diode voltage is less than the barrier potential, the diode current is small. When the diode voltage exceeds the barrier potential, the diode
rentincreases rapidly.
The Schematic Symbol and Case Styles
curFigure 3-la shows the schematic symbol of a diode. The p side is called the
anode, and the n side the cathode. The diode symbol looks like an arrow that
points from the p side to the n side, from the anode to the cathode. Figure 3-1b
shows some of the many typical diode case ase styles. Many, but not all, diodes have
the cathode lead (K) identified by a colored band.
Basic Diode Circuit
Figure 3-1c shows a diode circuit. In this circuit, the diode is forward biased. How
do we know? Because the positive battery terminal drives the p side through a resistor, and the negative battery terminal is connected to the n side. With this connection, the circuit is trying to push holes and free electrons toward the junction.
In more complicated circuits, it may be difficult to decide whether the
diode is forward biased. Here. is a guideline. Ask yourself this question: Is the
external circuit pushing current in the easy direction of flow? If the answer is yes,
the diode is forward biased..
What is the easy direction of flow? If you use conventional current, the
easy direction is the same direction as the diode arrow. If you prefer electron flow,
the easy direction is the other way.
Figure 3-1 Diode. (a) Schematic symbol; (b) diode case styles; (c) forward bias.
ANODE
d
น
RECTIFIERS
K
Vs
D0-5
A K
CATHODE
(a)
DO-15/D0-27A/D0-41/
D0-201AD/D0-204AL
A K
L
T6L
A K
SOD57
K
A
TO-220A
)b)
R
(0)
VD
Chapter 3
Diode Theory
Figure 3-2 Diode curve.
BREAKDOWN
REVERSE
CURRENT
FORWAND
REGION
Vo
KNEE 0.7 V
REVERSЕ
REGION
When the diode is part of a complicated circuit, we also can use
Thevenin's theorem to determine whether it is forward biased. For istance assume that we have reduced a complicated circuit with Thevenin's theorem to get
Fig. 3-1c. We would know that the diode is forward biased.
The Forward Region
Figure 3-1c is a circuit that you can set up in the laboratory. After you connect this
circuit, you can measure the diode current and voltage. You can also reverse the
polarity of the dc source and measure diode current and voltage for reverse bias.
If you plot the diode current versus the diode voltage, you will get a graph that
looks like Fig. 3-2.
This is a visual summary ofthe ideas discussed in the preceding chapter.
For instance, when the diode is forward biased, there is no significant current until
the diode voltage is greater than the barrier potential. On the other hand, when the
diode is reverse biased, there is almost no reverse current until the diode voltage
reaches the breakdown voltage. Then,avalanche produces a large reverse current,
destroying the diode.
Knee Voltage
In the forward region, the voltage atwhich the current starts to increase rapidly is
called the knee voltage ofthe diode. The knee voltage equals the barrier potential.
Analysis of diode circuits usually comes down to determining whether the diode
voltage is more or less than the knee voltage. If it's more, the diode conducts
easily. If it's less, the diode conducts poorly. We define the knee voltage of a silicon diode as:
VK =0.7 V
(Note: The symbol means "approximately equal to.")
(3-1)
Even though germanium diodes are rarely used in new designs, you may
still encounter germanium diodes in special circuits or in older equipment. For
this reason, remember that the knee voltage of a germanium diode is approximately 0.3 V. This lower knee voltage is an advantage and accounts for the use of
a germanium diode in certain applications.
Bulk Resistance
Above the knee voltage, the diode current increases rapidly. This meneans that small
increases in the diode voltage cause large increases in diode cur turrent. After the
91
62
barrier potential is overcome, all that impedes the current is the ohmic resistance
of the p and n regions. In other words, if the p and n regions were two separate
pieces of semiconductor, each would have a resistance that you could measure
with an ohmmeter, the same as an ordinary resistor.
The sum of the ohmic resistances is called the bulk resistance of the
diode. It is defined as:
RB= Rp+ RN (3-2)
The bulk resistance depends on the size of the p and n regions, and how heavily
doped they are. Often, the bulk resistance is less than 1.
Maximum DC Forward Current
If the current in a diode is too large, the excessive heat can destroy the diode. For
this reason, a manufacturer's data sheet specifies the maximum current a diode
can safely handle without shortening its life or degrading its characteristics.
The maximum forward current is one of the maximum ratings given on
a data sheet. This current may be listed asImax IF(max), Io, etc., depending on the manufacturer. For instance, a 1N456 has a maximum forward current rating of 135 mA.
This means that it can safely handle a continuous forward current of 135 mA.
Power Dissipation
You can calculate the power dissipation of a diode the same way as you do for a
resistor. It equals the product of diode voltage and current. As a fornula:
Pp VDIp (3-3)
The power rating is the maximum power the diode can safely dissipate
without shortening its life or degrading its properties. In symbols, the definition is:
Pmax Vmах таx (3-4)
where Vmaxr is the voltage corresponding to Imax- For instance, if a diode has a
maximum voltage and current of 1 V and 2A, its power rating is 2 W.
Example 3-1
Is the diode of Fig. 3-3a forward biased or reverse biased?
SOLUTION The voltage across R2 is positive; therefore, the circuit is trying
to push current in the easy direction of flow. If this is not clear, visualize the
Thevenin circuit facing the diode as shown in Fig. 3-3b. In this series circuit,
you can see that the de sou srce is trying to push current in the easy direction of
flow. Therefore, the diode is forward biased.
Whenever in doubt, reduce the circuit to a series circuit. Then, it will
be clear whether the dc source is trying to push current in the easy direction
or not.
Chapter 3
Diode Theory
Figure 3-3
R A
w
< R
(a)
B
=
D D
A
B
(b)
(c)
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-1 Are the diodes of Fig. 3-3c forward biased or
reverse biased?
Example 3-2
A diode has a power rating of 5 W. If the diode voltage is 1.2 V and the diode
current is 1.75 A, what is the power dissipation? Will the diode be destroyed?
SOLUTION
Pp = (1.2 V)(1.75 A) = 2.1 W
This is less than the power rating, so the diode will not be destroyed.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-2 Referring to Example 3-2, what is the diode's
power dissipation if the diode voltage is 1.1 V and the diode current is 2 A?
3-2 The Ideal Diode
Figure 3-4 shows a detailed graph of the forward region of a diode. Here you see
the diode current Ip versus diode voltage VD. Notice how the current is approximately zero until the diode voltage approaches the barrier potential. Somewhere
in the vicinity of 0.6 to 0.7 V, the diode current increases. When the diode voltage
is greater than 0.8 V, the diode current is significant and the graph is almost linear.
Depending on how a diode is doped and its physical size, it may differ
from other diodes in its maximum forward current, power rating, and other
characteristics. If we need an exact solution, we would have to use the graph of
63
64
Figure 3-4 Graph of forward current.
40 mА30 mA
20 mA
10 mA
0
0.4 V 0.8 V 1.2 V
L
1.6 V 2.0 V
Vp
the particular diode. Although the exactcurrent and voltage points will diffe ffer from
one diode to the next, the graph of any diode is similar to Fig. 3-4. All sili
ilicon
diodes have a knee voltage of approximately 0.7 V.
Most of the time, we do not need an exact solution. This is why we can
and should use approximations for a diode. We will begin with the simplest
approximation, called an ideal diode. In the most basic terms, what does a diode
do? It conducts well in the forward direction and poorly in the reverse direction.
Ideally, a diode acts like a perfect conductor (zero resistance) when forward
biased and like a perfect insulator (infinite resistance) whenreverse biased.
Figure 3-5a shows the current-voltage graph of an ideal diode. It echoes
what we just, said: zero resistance when forward biased and infinite resistance
when reverse biased. It is impossible to build such a device, but this is what manufacturers would produce if they could.
Is there any device that acts like an ideal diode? Yes. Anordinary switch
has zero resistance when closed and infinite resistance when open. Therefore, an
ideal diode acts like a switch that closes when forward biased and opens when
reverse biased. Figure 3-5b summarizes the switch idea.
Figure 3-5 (a) Ideal diode curve; (b) ideal diode acts like a switch.
IDEAL
(a)
VD
EVERSE BIAS
FORWARD BIAS
(4)
Chapter 3
Diode Theеоry
Example 3-3
Use the ideal diode to calculate the load voltage and load current in Fig. 3-6a.
SOLUTION Since the diode is forward biased, it is equivalent to a closed
switch. Visualize the diode as a closed switch. Then, you can see that all of the
source voltage appears across the load resistor:
V= 10 V
With Ohm's law, the load current is:
10 V
1 = ΤΚΩ = 10 mA
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-3 In Fig. 3-6a, find the ideal load current if the
source voltage is 5 V.
Example 3-4
Calculate the load voltage and load current in Fig. 3-6b using an ideal diode.
Figure 3-6
IDEAL
+
R, 10 V = 36 V 1 k2
구
(a)
12 V
-T
+
L
6 ΚΩ IDEAL
W
3 ΚΩ 1k
(b)
2 k IDEAL
w
(c)
2 1 k
SOLUTION One way to solve this problem is to Thevenize the circuit to
the left of the diode. Looking from the diode back toward the source, we
see a voltage divider with 6 k and 3 kn. The Thevenin voltage is 12 V,
and the Thevenin resistance is 2 k. Figure 3-6c shows the Thevenin circuit
driving the diode. (If you have any problem understanding this, review
Example 1-3.)
65
Now that we have a series circuit, we can see that the diode is forward
biased. Visualize the diode as a closed switch. Then, the remaining calculations
are:
12 V 11== 4 mA
and
VL = (4 mA)(1 kN) = 4 V
You don't have to use Thevenin's theorem. You can analyze Fig. 3-6b
by visualizing the diode as a closed switch.Then, you have 3 k in parallel with
I k, equivalent to 750 . Using Ohm's law, you can calculate a voltage drop
of 32 V across the 6 k. The rest of the analysis produces the same load voltage
and load current.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-4 Using Fig. 3-6b, change the 36 V source to
18 V and solve for the load voltage and load current using an ideal diode.
GOOD TO KNOW
When you troubleshoot a circuit
that contains a silicon diode that is
supposed to be forward biased,
diode voltage measurement much
greater than 0.7 V means that the
diode has failed and is in fact open.
JASO
3-3 The Second Approximation
The ideal approximation is all right in most troubleshooting situations. But we are
not always troubleshooting. Sometimes, we wantamore accurate value for load
current and load voltage. This is where the second approximation comes in.
Figure 3-7a shows the graph of current versus voltage for the second
approximation. The graph says that no current exists until 0.7 V appears across the
diode. At this point, the diode turns on. Thereafter, only 0.7 V can appear across
the diode, no matter what the current.
Figure 3,7b shows the equivalent circuit for the second approximation of
a silicon diode. We think of the diode as a switch in series with a barrier potential of
0.7 V. If the Thevenin voltage facing the diode is greater than 0.7 V, the switch will
close. When conducting, then the diode voltage is 0.7 V for any forward current.
On the other hand, if the Thevenin voltage is less than 0.7 V, the switch
will open. In this case, there is no current through the diode.
Figure 3-7 (a) Diode curve for second approximation; (b) equivalent circuit for second
approximation.
(a)
2D APPROXIMATION
0.7 V
REVERSE BIAS
VD
0.7 V
0.7 V
FORWARD BIAS
(b)
Chapter 3
Example 3-5
Figure 3-8
2D APPROXIMATION
10 V. S R
1 k -T
Use the second approximation to calculate the load voltage, load current, and
diode power in Fig, 3-8.
SOLUTION Since the diode is forward biased, it is equivalent to a battery of
0.7 V. This means that the load voltage equals the source voltage minus the
diode drop:
VL = 10 V - 0.7 V = 9.3 V
With Ohm's law, the load current is:
Diode Theory
93 V
= 9.3 mA 1k
The diode power is
Pp = (0.7 V)(9.3 mA) = 6.51 mW
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-5 Using Fig. 3-8, change the source voltage to
5 V and calculate the new load voltage, current, and diode power.
Example 3-6
Calculate the load voltage, load current, and diode power in Fig. 3-9a using the
second approximation.
Figure 3-9 (a) Original circuit; (b) simplified with Thevenin's theorem.
36 V
-T
6 ΚΩ 2D APPROXIMATION
ww
+
3 ΚΩ 1 k 12 V
(a)
2 ΚΩ 2D APPROXIMATION
www 中
1 k
(b)
SOLUTION Again, we will Thevenize the circuit to the left of the diode.
As before, the Thevenin voltage is 12 V and the Thevenin resistance is 2 kQ.
Figure 3-9b shows the simplified circuit.
Since the diode voltage is 0.7 V, the load current is:
112 V-0.7 V
3 ΚΩ
The load voltage is:
3.77 mA
VL (3.77 mA)(1 kl) = 3.77 V
and the diode power is:
Pp (0.7 V)(3.77 mA) = 2.64 mW
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-6 Repeat Example 3-6 using 18 V as the voltage
source value.
67
Figure 3-10 (o) Diode curve for third approximàtion; (6) equivalent circuit for third
approximation.
Ip
3D APPROXIMATION
0.7V Re
REVERSE BIAS
(a)
VD 0.7 V 0.7 V RA
FORWARD BIAS
(b)
3-4 The Third Approximation
In the third approximation of a diode, we include the bulk resistance Rg. Figure 3-10a shows the effect that Re has on the diode curve. After the silicon diode
turns on, the voltage increases linearly with an increase in current. The greater the
current, the larger the diode voltage because of the voltage drop across the bulk
resistance.
The equivalent circuit for the third approximation is a switch in series
with a barrier potential of 0.7 V and a resistance of Ra (see Fig. 3-10b). When the
diode voltage is larger than 0.7 V, the diode conducts. During conduction, the total
-voltage across the diode is:
Vp = 0.7 V+IDRB
Often, the bulk resistance is less than 1 , and we can safely ignore it in
calculations. A useful guideline for ignoring bulk resistance is this definition:
(3-5)
our
Ignore bulk: Rg < 0.01RTH (3-6)
This says to ignore the bulk resistance when it is less than 1/100 of the Thevenin
resistance facing the diode. When this condition is satisfied, the error is less than
1- percent. The third approximation is rarely used by technicians because circuit
designers usually satisfy Eq. (3-6).
Example 3-7
The 1N4001 of Fig. 3-11a has a bulk resistance of 0.23 N. What is the load voltage, load current, and diode power?
SOLUTION Replacing the diode by its third approximation, we get Fig. 3-11b. The bulk resistance is small enough to ignore because it is less than 1/100 of the load resistance. In this case, we can use the'second approximation to solve the problem. We already did this in Example 3-6, where we found a load voltage, load current, and diode power of 9.3 V, 9.3 mA,
and 6.51 mW.
68 Chapter 3
Figure 3-11
10 V
1N4001
(a)
S
RL
1 ΚΩ
10 V
T
0.7 V
0.23 2
(9)
Example 3-8
Repeat the preceding preceding exaexample for a load resistance of 102.
SOLUTION
Rr=
re 3-12a shows the equivalent circuit, Theh total resistance is:
0.23 +
+ 10 Ω= 10.23 Ω
he total voltage across Rriis:
VT =
= 10V-0.7 V = 9.3 V
efore, the load current is:
9.3 V IL 0.909 A
10.23
The load voltage is:
VL = (0.909 A)(10 2) = 9.09 V
Figure 3-12
10 V
!ode Theory
0.7 V
0.23
(a)
Lm
ilent
10 V
D1
IN4001GP
LR1
100
1 k
XM2
09.08050 VDC
FUNCTION
AL!
1002
мMOEINGIAS
CHOIGES . LEVEL ENTER
)b(
NATH
M
MultiSim
To calculate the diode power, we need to know the diode voltage. We can get this in either of two ways. We can
subtract the load voltage from the source voltage:
VD = 10V- 9.09 V = 0.91 V
or we can use Eq. (3-5):
Vp =0.7 V + (0.909A)(0.23 ) = 0.909 V
The slight difference in the last two answers is caused by rounding. The diode power is:
PD = (0.909 V)(0.909 A) = 0.826 W
Two more points. First, the 1N4001 has a maximum forward current of 1 Aand a power rating of 1 W, so the diode
is being pushed to its limits with a load resistance of 10 N. Second, the load voltage calculated with the third approximation
is 9.09 V, which is in very close agreement with the MultiSim load voltage of 9.08 V (see Fig. 3-126).
Summary Table 3-1 illustrates the differences between the three diode approximations.
|Diode Approximations Summary Table 3–1
First or ideal Second or practical Third
When used Troubleshooting or
quick analysis
Analysis at
technician level
High-level or
engineering-level analysis
Diode curve D
Equivalent circuit
Reverse bias
Circuit example
10 V
PRACTICE PROBLEM 3-8
70
Forward bias
IS
D
D
VD
0.7 V
AD 0.7. V
VD
Vout
010V
SA
1002 10A
لامم
0.7 V
Reverse bias
0.7 V
0.7 V
Rg
Reverse bias
0.7.V.
Ra
Forward bias Forward bias
Si Vout.
Vout
S
R
09.3 V
100
10 V
Ew
09.28 V
0.23
SRL
100
Repeat Example 3-8 using 5 Vasthe voltage source value.
Chapter 3
Figure 3-13 (a) DMM diode forward test
Diode Theory
お宮
jile
3-5 Troubleshooting
You can quickly check the condition of a diode with an ohmmeter on a mediumto-high resistance range.Measure the de resistance of the diode in either direction,
and then reverse the leads and measure the dc resistance again. The forward
current will depend onwhich ohmmeter range is used, which means that you get
different readings on different ranges.
The main thing to look for, however, is a high ratio of reverse to forward
resistance. For typical silicon diodes used in electronics work, the ratio should be
higher than 1000:1. Remember to use a high enough resistance range to avoid the
possibility of diode damage. Normally, the R × 100 or R 1K ranges will
provide proper safe measurements.
Using an ohmmeter to check diodes is an example of go/no-go testing.
You're really not.interested in the exact dc resistance of the diode; all you want to
know is whether the diode has a low resistance in the forward direction and a high
resistance in the reverse direction. Diode troublės are indicated for any of the fol.
lowing: extremely low resistance in both directions (diode shorted); high resistance in both directions (diode open); somewhat low resistance in the reverse
direction (called a leaky diode).
When set to the orms or resistance function, most digital multimeters
(DMMs) do not have the required voltage and current output capability to properly test pn-junction diodes. Most DMMs do, however, have a special diode test
range. When the meter is set to this range, it supplies a constant current of
approximately 1 mA to whatever device is connected to its leads. When forward
biased, the DMM will display the pn-junction's forward voltage VF shown in
Fig. 3-13a. This forward voltage will generally be between 0.5 V and 0.7 Vfor
normal silicon pn-junction diodes. When the diode is reverse biased by the test
leads, the meter will give an overrange indication such as "OL" or "1" on the display as shown in Fig. 3-13b. A shorted diode would display a voltage of less than
0.5 V in both directions. An open diode would be indicated by an overrange display in both directions. Aleaky diode would display a voltage less than 2.0 V in
both directions.
UNCTION BER
AC Freq Cont
ANCEDIGI
Nult
MATH IENE
Auta/Hala
Siagle
WELEVEL
ENTENN TRI莊 LOGAL
(a)
71
Figure 3-13 (6) DMM diode reverse test.
Agilent Va Disls Madtus Maltime
OPEN
Exaxample 3-9
FENETLOW
Shifi
CHOIDES EVEL ENTER
(b)
Ratig Rst
13 USET
Figure 3-14 Troublesho shooting a circuit.
Vs
10 V T
1N4001
R
1 ks2
Figure 3-14 shows the diode circuit analyzed earlier. Suppose something causes
the diode to burn out.What kind of symptoms will you get?
SOLUTION When a diode burns out, it becomes an open circuit. In this case,
the current drops to zero. Therefore, if you measure the load voltage, the voltmeter will indicate zero.
72
Example 3-10
Suppose the circuit of Fig. 3-14 is not working. If theload is not shorted, włwhat is
the trouble?
SOLUTION Many troubles are possible. First, the diode could be open.
Second, the supply voltage could be zero. Third, one of the connecting wires
could be opën.
How do you find the trouble? Measure the voltages to isolate the defective component. Then disconnect any suspected component and test its resistance. For instance, you could measure the source voltage first and the load
voltage second, If there is source voltage but noload voltage, the diode may be
open. An ohmmeter or DMM test will tell. If the diode passes the ohmmeter or
DMM test, check the connections because there's nothing else to account for
having source so voltage but no load voltage.
If there is no source voltage, the power supply is defective or a connection between the supply and the diode is open. Power-supply troubles are common. Often, when electronics equipment is not working, the trouble is in the
power supply. This is why most troubleshooters start by measuring the voltages
out of the power supply.
Chapter 3
Figure 3-1 3-15 Up-down analysis of a
circuit.,
2D APPROXIMATION
+ VK
SRL
>1 k52 10 V
3-6 Up-Down Circuit Analysis
There is nothing quite like up-down analysis to help you understand circuits. The
idea is this: Any circuit has independent variables (like source voltages and
branch resistances) and dependent variables (like voltages across resistors, currents, and powers). When an independent variable increases, each of the dependent variables will usually respond by increasing or decreasing. If you understand
how the circuit works, you will be able to predict whether a dependent variable
will increase or decrease.
Here is how it works for Fig. 3-15. Avoltage Vs of 10 V is applied to a
diode in series with a load resistance R of 1 kn. In the second approximation of
a diode, there are three independent variables for this circuit: Vs, RL, and VK. We
are including the knee voltage as an independent variable because it may be
slightly different from the ideal value of 0.7 V. There are five dependent variables
as follows: VL, IL, PD, PL, and Pr. These are the load voltage, load current, diode
power, load power, and total power.
Suppose the source voltage Vs increases slightly, say 10 percent. How
will each of the dependent variables respond? Will each go up (U), go down (D),
or show no change (N)? Here are some of the thoughts that might pass through
your mind as you solve this problem:
In the second approximation, the diode has a voltage drop of0.7 V. Ifthe
source voltage increases slightly, the diode drop is still 0.7 V, which
means that the load voltage has to increase. If the load voltage increases,
the load current increases. An increase in load current means that the
diode power and load power increase. The total power is the sum of
diode power and load power, so total power must increase.
The first row of Table 3-1 summarizes the effect of a small increase in source voltage. As you can see, each dependent variable increases.
What do you think happens when the load resistance of Fig. 3-15 increases slightly? Since the diode voltage is constant in the second approximation,
the load voltage shows no change, but the load current will go down. This implies
less diode power, load power, and total power. The second row of Table 3-1 summarizes this case.
Finally, consider the effect of knee voltage. If the knee voltage increases
slightly in Fig. 3-15, the dependent variables decrease, except for the diode
power, as shown in the third row of Table 3-1.
Look at Fig. 3-25 (atthe end of the chapter). How do you use this to find
dependent changes?
Theway you can practice up-down analysis for the circuit is by selecting
one independent variable (VS, R1, R2, R3, or Vk). Next, select any dependent
nt yari-.
able (VA, VB, Vc. I etc.). Then try to figure out whether the dependent varia
goes up, goes down, or shows no change.
Diode Theory
Table 3- Up-Down Analysis
V Po
Vs increase
U U
R.Increase
N D
Vincrease D
Pт
0 a
ก ก
D
U D D
73
For instance, how does an increase in knee voltage affect the current in
R3? In Fig. 3-25, a stiff voltage divider drives the diode in series with the 100 k.
Therefore, a slight increase in knee voltage will decrease the voltage across the
100 κΩ. Then, Ohm's law tells us that 13 should decrease.
Afinal point: Do not use a calculator for up-down circuit analysis. This
would defeat the whole purpose of this type of thinking. Up-down circuit analysis
is similar to troubleshooting because the emphasis is on logic rather than equations. The purpose of up-down analysis is to train your mind to get in touch with
the circuit action. It does this by forcing you to think about how the different parts
of the circuit interact.
GOOD TO KNOW
Internet search engines, such as
Google, can quickly help locate
semiconductor specifications.
3-7 Reading a Data Sheet
A data sheet, or specification sheet, lists important parameters and operating characteristics for semiconductor devices. Also, essential information such as case
styles, pinouts, testing procedures, and typical applications can be obtained fromm
a component's data sheet. Semiconductor manufacturers generally provide this
information in data books or from the manufacturer's website. This information
can also be found onthe Internet by companies that specialize in cross-referencing
or component substitution.
Much of the information on a manufacturer's data sheet is obscure and of
use only to circuit designers. For this reason, we will discuss only those entries on
the data sheet that describe quantities in this book.
Reverse Breakdown Voltage
Let us start with the data sheet for a IN4001, a rectifier diode used in power supplies (circuits thaf convert acvoltage to dc voltage). Figure 3-16 shows a data sheet
for the 1N4001 to 1N4007 series of diodes: seven diodes that have the same forward characteristics but differ in their reverse characteristics. We are interested in
the 1N4001 member of this family. The first entry under "Absolute Maximum Ratings" is this:
74
Peak Repetitive Reverse Voltage
Symbol
VRRM
Thebreakdown voltage for this diode is 50 V. This breakdown occurs because the
diode goes into avalanche when a huge number of carriers suddenly appears in
the depletion layer. With a rectifier diode like the 1N4001, breakdown is usually
destructive.
With the 1N4001, a reverse voltage of 50 Vrepresents a destructive level
that a designer avoids under all operating conditions. This is why a designer includes a safety factor. There is no absolute rule on how large to make the safety
factor because it depends on too many design factors. A conservative design
would use a safety factor of 2, which means never allowing a reverse voltage of
more than 25 Vacross the 1N4001. A less-conservative design might allow as
much as 40 V across the 1N4001.
On othher data sheets, reverse breakdown voltage may be designated PIV,
PRV, or BV.
Chapte pter 3
Figure 3-16 Data sheet for 1N4001-1N4007 diodes.
FAIROHILD
SEMICONDUCTOR*
Features
Low forward voltage drop.
*: High surge current capability.
1N4001- 1N4007
DO-41
COLOR BAND DENOTES CATHODE
1N4001-1N400
General Purpose Rectifiers
Absolute Maximum Ratings* TA25°C untess otherwise noted
Symbol Parameter Value Units
4001 4002 4003 4004 4005 4006 4007
VRRM Peak Repetitive Reverse Voltage 50 100 200 400 600 800 1000 V
FAVY
FSM
Average Rectified Forward Current,
.375 " lead length @TA = 75°C
Non-repetitive Peak Forward Surge
1.0 A
Current 30 A
8.3 ms Single Half-Sine-Wave
Tstg Storage Temperature Range -55 to +175
T Operating Junction Temperature -55 to +175
C
Co
These ratings are limitingvalues above which the serviceability of any semiconductor device may be impaired.
Thermal Characteristics
Symbol Parameter
Po Power Disslpation
RAJA Thermal Resistance, Junction to Ambient
Value Units
3.0
50 CM
Electrical Characteristics T25°C unless otherwise noted
Symbol Parameter Device Units
4001 4002 4003 4004 4005 4006 4007
Ve Forward Voltage @1.0 A 1.1
Ir Maximum Full Load Reverse Current, Full 30
Cycle TA 75°C
IR Reverse Current @rated VR TA= 25°C 5.0
T 100°C
500
A
HA
A
CT Total Capacitance
VR= 4.0 V, f= 1.0 MHz
15
d
$2003 Feirchild Corporaiion
Diodede Theory
(a)
1N4001-1N4007, Rav. Ct
75
76
 FORWARD
 SURGE
 CURRENT(A) pk
 FORWARD
 CURRENT (A)
Figure 3-16 (continued)
Typical Characteristics
다
기
FORWARD CURRENT DERATING CURVE
20
10
D
General Purpose Rectifiers
(continued)
FORWARD CHARACTERISTICS
SINGLE PHASE
HALF WAVE
ZH09
RESISTIVE OR
INDUCTIVE LOAD
0.2-370 .375" 9.0 mm LEAD
FORWARD CURRENT
2
0.4
0.2
0.1
T, = 25°C
Pulse Width = 300/µs
E
LENGTHS 0.04 2% Duty Cycle
0.02
0
20 40
09 08
100 120 140 160 180 0.01
0.6 0.8
1
1.2 1.4 AMBIENT TEMPERATURE (°C)
FORWARD VOLTAGE (V)
REVERSE CHARACTERISTICS NON-REPETITIVE SURGE CURA
OE
1000
4 TSE CURRENT
0.1
001 ΠΕ
150°C
T= 100°C.
1
T== 25°C
2 4 6 8 10 20 40
NUMBER OF CYCLES AT 60Hz
$2003 Fairchild Semiconductor Corporátion
90 100
(b)
0.01
20 40 90 80 100 120
RATED PEAK REVERSE VOLTLTAGE (%)
140
1N4001-1N40 N07, Rev. C1
Maximum Forward Current
Another entry of interest is average rectified forward current, which looks like this
on the data sheet:
Symbol Value
Average Rectified Forward Current
@TA75°C
FAVI
1A
This entry tells us that the 1N4001 can handle up to 1 Ain the forward direction
when used as a rectifier. You will learn more about average rectified forward current in the next chapter. For now, all you need to know is that 1'A is the level of
Chapter 3 1N4001-1N4007
Diode Theory
forward current when the diode burns out because of excessive power ver dissipation.
On other data sheets, the avcrage current may be designated as Io.
Again, a designer looks upon 1 A as the absolute maximum rating of the
IN4001, a level of forward current that should not even be approached. Thís is
why a safety factor would bė included--possibly a factor of 2. In other words, a
reliable design would ensure that the forward current is less than 0.5 A under all
operating conditions. Failure studies of devices show that the lifetime of a device
decreases the closer you get to the maximum rating. This is why some designers
use a safety factor of as much as 10:1. A really conservative design would keep
the maximum forward current of the 1N4001 at 0.1 A or less.
Forward Voltage Drop
Under "Electrical Characteristics" in Fig. 3-16, the first entry shown gives you
these data:
Characteristic and Conditions
Forward Voltage Drop
(i) =1.0 A, TA = 25°C
Symbol
Maximum
Value
VF 1.1 V
As shown in Fig. 3-16 on the chart titled "Forward Characteristics," the typical
1N4001 has a forward voltage drop of 0.93 V when the current is 1 Aand the junction temperature is 25°C. If you test thousands of 1N4001s, you will find that a
few will have as much as 1.1 V across themwhen the current is 1 A.
Maximum Reverse Current
Another entry on the data sheet that is worth discussing is this one:
Maximum
Characteristic and Conditions Symbol Value
Typical
Value
Reverse Current IR
TA= 25°C 0.05 μА 10 μA
TA = 100°С 1.0 μА 50 μА
This is the reverse current at the maximum reverse dc rated voltage (50 Vfor a
1N4001). At 25°C, the typical IN4001 has a maximum reverse current of 5.0 μA.
But notice how it increases to 500 μA at 100°C. Remember that this reverse current
includes thermally produced saturation current and surface-leakage current. You
can see from these numbers thattemperature is important. A design that requires a
reverse current of less than 5.0 μAwill work fine at25°C with a typical IN4001,
but will fail in mass production ifthe junction temperature reaches 100°C.
3-8 How to Calculate Bulk Resistance
When you are trying to analyze a diode circuit accürately, you will need to know
the bulkresistance of the diode. Manufacturers' datä sheets do not usually list the
bulk resistance separately, but they do give enough information to allow you to
calculate it. Here is the derivation for bulk resistance:
Ry V-V
12-11
(3-7)
77
78
where V1 and I1 are the voltage and current at some point at or above the knee
voltage; V2 and I2 are the voltage and current at some higher point on the diode
curve.
For instance, the data sheet of a 1N4001 gives a forward voltage of
0.93 Vfor a current of 1 A. Since this is a silicon diode, it has a knee voltage of
approximately 0.7 V and a current of approximately zero. Therefore, the values to
use are V2 = 0.93 V, 12 1 A,V₁= 0.7 V, and 11 = 0. Substituting these values
into equation, we get a bulk resistance of:
Rp= V2V 0.93V-0,7V0.23V = 0.23 Ω
五一ムIA-0A IA
Incidentally, the diode curve is a graph of current versus voltage. The
bulk resistance equals the inverse ofthe slope above the knee. The greater the slope
of the diode curve, the smaller the bulk resistance. In other words, the more vertical the diode curve is above the knee, the lower the bulk resistance.
3-9 DC Resistance of a Diode
If you take the ratio of total diode voltage to total diode current, you get the de
resistance of the diode. In the forward direction, this de resistance is symbolized
byRF, in the reverse direction, it is designated RR
Forward Resistance
Because the diode is a nonlinear device, its de resistance varies with the current
through it. For example, here are some pairs of forward current and voltage for a
1N914: 10 mA at 0.65 V, 30 mA at 0.75 V, and 50 mA at 0.85 V. Atthe first point,
the dc resistance is:
RF
0.65 V
65 2
10mA
At the second point:
0.75 V
RF=
30 mA
And at the third point:
= 25 Ω
0.85 mV
R 50 mA= 17
Notice how the de resistance decreases as the current increases. In any case, the
forward resistance is low compared to the reverse resistance.
Reverse Resistance
Similarly, here are two sets of reverse current and voltage for a 1N914: 25 nA at
20 V; 5 µA at 75 V. At the first point, the de resistance is:
RR
20 V
- 800 ΜΩ
25 nA
At the second point:
75 V
RR =
5μA
= 15 MO
Notice how the dc resistance decreases as we approach the breakdown voltage
(75 V).
Chapter 3
DC Resistance versus Bulk Resistance
The de resistance of a diode is different from the bulk resistance. The de resistance
of a diode equals the bulk resistance plus the effect of the barrier potential.
other words, the de resistance of a diode is its total resistance, whereas the bulk
resistance is the resistance of only the p and n regions. For this reason, the dc
resistance of a diode is always greater than bulk resistance.
In
Figure 3-17
2 V
Diode de Theory
Load-line analysis.
Sy
(a)
100 2
)b(
FA
VD
3-10 Load Lines
This section is about the load line, a tool used to find the exact value of diode.current and voltage. Load lines are useful with transistors, so a detailed explanation
will be given later in the transistor discussions.
Equation for the Load Line
How can we find the exact diode current and voltage in Fig. 3-17a? The current
through the resistor is:
Ip= Vs-VD
R,
Because of the series circuit, this current is the same through the diode.
An Example
(3-8)
If the source voltage is 2.V and the resistance is 100 as shown in Fig. 3-17b,
then Eq. (3-8) becomes:
Ip=2-VD
100 (3-9)
Equation (3-9) is a linear relationship between current and voltage. If we
plot this equation, we will get a straight line. For instance, let Vp equal zero, Then:
2V-0V
ID
100 -=20 mA
Plotting this point (Ip= 20 mA, VD0) gives the point on the vertic ertical axis of
Fig. 3-18. This point is called saturation because it represents maximmum cutrent
with 2 V across 100 U
Here's how to get another point. Let Vo equal 2 V. Then Eq. (3-9) gives:
2V-2V
ID =0
100 ບ
When we plot this point (Ip = 0, VD = 2 V), we get the point shown vn on the hori
zontal axis (Fig. 3-18). This point is called cutoff because it represents minimum
current.
in
By selecting other voltages, we can calculate and plot additic tional points.
Because Eq. (3-9) is linear, all points will lie on the straight line
shown
Fig. 3-18. The straight line is called the load line
The Q Point
Figure 3-18 shows the load line and a diode curve. The point of intersection)
known as the point, represents a simultaneous solution between the diode curve
and the load line. In other words, the point is the only point on the h graph that
works for both the diode and the circuit. By reading the coordinates of the point,
we get a current of 12.5 mA and a diode voltage of 0.75 V.
79
80
Figure 3-18 O point. is the the intersection n of the diode curye and the load line.
30 mA
20 mA
ΓΙΟΝ
DIODE CURVE
12.5 mA
10 mA
Q (OPERATING POINT
0
0.75 V 1V 2V
CUTOFF
Incidentally, the point has no relationship to the figure of nтеerit of a
coil. In the present discussion, Q is an abbreviation for quiescent, which mean:
"at
rest." The quiescent or point of semiconductor circuits is discussed in later
chapters.
3-11 Surface-Mount Diodes
Surface-mount (SM) diodes can be found anywhere there is a need for diode
applications. SM diodes are small, efficient, and relatively easy to test, remove,
and replace on the circuit board. Although there are a number of SM package
styles, two basic styles dominate the industry: SM (surface mount) and SOT
(small outline transistor).
The SMpackage has two I-bend leads and a colored band on one end
p fo
the body to indicate the cathode lead. Figure 3-19 shows a typical set of dimensions. The length and width of the SM package are related to the current rating of
Figure 3-19
SIDE
The two-terminal SM-style package, used for SM diodes.
TOP
MOUNTING LEADS
CATHODE COLOR BAND
0.1 in
SCALE
END
Chapter 3
Figure 3-20 The SOT-23 is a three-terminal transistor package commonly used for
SM diodes.
SIDE
PIN 1
TOP
MOUNTING LEADS
PIN 2
PIN 3
0.1 in
SCALE
END
the device. The larger the surface area, the higher the current rating. So an SM
diode rated at 1 A might have a surface area given by 0.181 by 0.115 in. The 3 А
version, on the other hand, might measure 0.260 by 0.236 in. The thickness tends
to remain at about 0.103 in for all current ratings.
Increasing the surface area of an SM-style diode increases its ability to
dissipate heat. Also, the corresponding increase in the width of the mounting terminals increases the thermal conductance to a virtual heat sink made up of the solder joints, mounting lands, and the circuit board itself.
SOT-23 packages have three gull-wing terminals (see Fig. 3-20). The
terminals are numbered counterclockwise from the top, pin 3 being alone on
one side. However, there are nostandard markings indicating which two terminals
are used for the cathode and the anode. To determine the internal connections of
the diode, you can look for clues printed on the circuit board, check the schematic
diagram, oro consult the diode manufacturer's data book. Some SOT-style pack
ages include two diodes, which have a common-anode or common-cathode connection at one of the terminals.
Diodes in SOT-23 packages are small, no dimension being greater than
0.1 in. Their small size makes it difficult to dissipate larger amounts of heat, so the
diodes are generally rated at less than 1 A. The small size also makes it impractical to label them with identification codes. As with many of the tiny SM devices,
you have to determine the PIN from other clues on the circuit board and schematic
diagram.
Summary
SEC. 3-1 BASIC IDEAS
A diode is a nonlinear device. The knee
voltage, approximately 0.7 V for a silicon
diode, is where the forward curve turns
upward. The bulk resistance is the ohmic
resistance of the pand n regions. Diodes
have a maximum forward current and a
power rating.
Diode Theory
SEC. 3-2 THE IDEAL DIODE
This is the first approximation of a
diode. The equivalent circuit is a
switch that closes when forward
biased and opens when reverse
biased.
SEC. 3-3 THE SECOND
APPROXIMATION
In this approximation, we visualize a
silicon diode as a switch in series with a
knee voltage of 0.7 V. If the Thevenin
voltage facing the diode is greater than
0.7 V, the switch closes.
81
SEC. 3 THE THIRD
APPROXIMATION
We seldom use this approximation
because bulk resistance is usually small
enough to ignore. In this approximation,
we visualize the diode as a switch in series
with a knee voltage and a bulk
SEC. 3-5
resistanre.
TROUBLESHOOTING
When you suspect that a diode is the
trouble, remove it from the circuit and use
an ohmmeter to measure its resistance in
each direction. You should get a high
resistance one way and a low resistance
the other way, at least 1000:1 ratio.
Remember to use a high enough
resistance range when testing adiode, to
avoid possible diode damage. A DMM will
display 0.5--0.7 V when adiode is forward
biased and an overrange indication when
it is reverse biased.
SEC. 3-6 UP-DOWN CIRCUIT
ANALYSIS
Nocalculation is requíred in this type of
circuit analysis. All you are after is uр,
down, or no change. When you know.
beforehand how a dependent variable
should respond to an increase in an
independent variable, you will be more
successful at troubleshooting, analysis,
and design.
SEC. 3-7 READING A DATА
SHEET
Data sheets are useful to a circuit
designer and may be useful to a rëpair
technician for selecting a substitute
device, which is sometimes required.
Diode data sheets from different
manufacturers contain similar
information, but different symbols are.
used to indicate different operating
conditions. Diode data sheets may list the
following: breakdown voltage (VR. VRRM
VRWM, PIV, PRV, BV), maximum forward
current (IFmax), Fav), lo), forward voltage
drop (Vmx V, and maximum reverse
current IR(mox) RRM).
SEC. 3-8 HOW TO CALCULATE
BULK RESISTANСЕ
You need two points in the forward region
of the third approximatión. One point can
be 0.7 Vwith zero current. The second
point comes from the data sheet at a large
forward current where both a vololtage and
a current are given.
SEC. 3-9 DC RESISTANCЕ CE OF
A DIODE
The de resistance equals the diode voltage
divided by the diode current at some
operating point. This resistance is what an
ohmmeter will measure. DC resistance has
limited application, aside from telling you
that it is small in the forward direction and
large in the reverse
SEC. 3-10.
The current and voltage in a diode circuit
direction.
LOAD LINES
two separate requirements that
have to satisfy both the diode curve and
Ohm's law for the load resistor. These are
graphically translate to the intersection of
the diode curve and the load line.
SEC. 3-11 SURFACE-MOUNT
DIODES
Surface-mount diodes are often found on
modern electronics circuits boards. These
diodes are small, efficient, and typically
found either as an SM (surface mount) or
an SOT (small outline transistor) case stýle.
Definitions
(3-1) Silicon knee voltage:
0.7 V
(3-2) Bulk resistance:
Vk0.7 V
(3-4) Maximum power dissipation
O
Pmax
오
Pmax = max max
OPNO Rg Rp+ RN
(3-6) Ignore buik:
LINEAR
CIRCUIT
RTHRg RB<0.01 RTH
Derivations
(3-3) Diode power dissipation:
(3-7) Bulk resistance:
PD
Po Volo
(3-5) Third approximation:
V V2
0.7 V
+ VoRB
Vp 0.7 V+ loRB
82
Ra= リー4
V-V
Chapter 3
Student Assignments
1. When the graph of current versus
voltage is a straight line, the
device is referred to as
a. Active
b. Linear
c. Nonlinear
d. Passive
2. What kind of device is a resistor?
a. Unilateral
b. Linear
c. Nonlinear
d. Bipolar
3. What kind of a device is a diode?
a. Bilateral
b. Linear
c. Nonlinear
d. Unipolar
How is a nonconducting diode
4.
biased?
a. Forward
b. Inverse
c. Poorly
d. Reverse
5. When the diode current is large,
the bias is
a. Forward
b. Inverse
c. Poor
d. Reverse
6. The knee voltage of a diode is
approximately equal to the
a. Applied voltage
b. Barrier potential
c. Breakdown voltage
d. Forward voltage
7. The reverse current consists of
minority-carrier current and
a. Avalanche current
b. Forward current
c. Surface-leakage current
d. Zener current
8. How much voltage is there across
the second approximation of a
silicon diode when it is forward
biased?
a. 0
b. 0.3 V
c. 0.7 V
d. 1 V
9. How much current is there
through the second approximation
of a silicon diode when it is
reverse biased?
a. 0
b. 1 mA
c. 300 mA
d. None of the above
10. How much forward diode voltage
is there with the ideal-diode
approximation?
a. 0
b. 0.7 V
c. More than 0.7 V
d. 1 V
11. The bulk resistance of a 1 N4001 is
a. 0
b. 0.23
c. 10
d. 1 k
12. If the bulk resistance is zero, the
graph above the knee becomes
a. Horizontal
b. Vertical
c. Tilted at 45°
d. None of the above
13. The ideal diode is usually
adequate when
a. Troubleshooting
b. Doing precise calculations
c. The source voltage is low
d. The load résistance is low
14. The second approximation works
15.
well when
a. Troubleshooting
b. Load resistance is high
c. Source voltage is high
d.. All of the above
The only time you have to use the
third approximation is when
a. Load resistance is low
b. Source voltage is high
C Troubleshooting
d. None of the above
16.uliSim How much load
current is there in Fig. 3-21 with
the ideal diode?
a. 0 c. 12 mА
b. 11.3 mA d. 25 mA
Figure 3-21
1 k52
17.關翻食sin How much load
current is there in Fig. 3-21 with
the second approximation?
a. 0
b. 11.3 MA
c. 12 mA
d. 25 mA
18. ltisin How much load
current is there in Fig. 3-21 with
the third approximation?
a. 0
b. 11.3 mA
c.. 12 mA
d. 25 mA
19. ltisivn If the diode is open
in Fig. 3-21, the load voltage is
20.
a. O
b. 11.3 V
c. 20 V
d.-15 V
lII MuitiSim If the resistor is
ungrounded in Fig. 3-21, the
voltage measured with a DMM
between the top of the resistor
and ground is closest to
a. 0
b. 12 V
C. 20V
d.-15 V
21. fltisim The load voltage
22.
measures 12 V in Fig. 3-21. The
trouble may be
a. Ashorted diode
b. An open diode
c. An open load resistor
d. Too much supply voltage
Using the third approximation in
Fig. 3-21, how low must R be
before the diode's bulk resistance
must be considered?
a. 12 c. 232
b. 10
Diode Theory
d. 100 Ω
83
Problems
SEC. 3-1 BASIC IDEAS
3-1
3-2
3-3
A diode is in series with 220 2. If the voltage across
the resistor is 6 V, what is the current through the
diode?
Adiode has a voltage of 0.7 Vand a current of 100 mA.
What is the diode power?
Two diodes are in series. The first diode has avoltage of
0.75 V and the second has a voltage of 0.8 V. If the
current through the first diode is 400 mA, what is the
current through the second diode?
SEC. 3-2 THE IDEAL DIODE
3-4
3-5
3-6
In Fig. 3-220,calculate the load current, load voltage, load
power, diode power, and total power.
If the resistor is doubled in Fig. 3-22a, what is the load
current?
In Fig. 3-226, caiculate the load current, load voltage, load
power, diode power, and total power.
3-7 If the resistor is doubled inFig. 3-226, what is the load
3-8
current?
if the diode р polarity is reversed in Fig. 3-22b, what is the
diode current? The diode voltag
3-12 If the resistor is doubled in Fig. 3-22a, what is the load current?
3-13 If the diode polarity is reversed in Fig. 3-226, what is the
diode current? The diode voltage?
SEC. 3-4 THE THIRD APPROXIMATION
3-14 In Fig. 3-220, calculate the load current, load voltage, load
power, diode power, and total power. (Re= = 0.23 Ω)
3-15 If the resistor is doubled in Fig. 3-220, what is the load
current? (Re = 0.23 )
3-16 In Fig. 3-226, calculate the load current, load voltage, load
power, diode power, and total power. (Rg = 0.23 2)
3-17 If the resistor is doubled in. Fig. 3-22b, what is the load
current? (R 0.23 Ω)
3-18 If the diode polarity is reversed in Fig. 3-22b, what is the
diode current? The diode voltage?
SEC. 3-5 TROUBLESHOOTING
3-19 Suppose the voltage across the diode of Fig. 3-23a is 5.V. ls
the diode open or shorted?
Figure 3-22
20 V
1 k2
12 V
(a)
470 2
Figure 3-23.
+12 V
R₁30 k
+5 V
R100 k52
T구
(a)
H₂ 10 kQ
73
(b)
5 k22
(4)
SEC. 3-3 THE SECOND APPROXIMATION
3-9 In Fig. 3-220, calculate the load current, load voltage, load
power,er, diode power, and total power.
3-10 if the resistor is doubled in Fig. 3-22a, what is t load
currentt?
-11 In Fig. 3-2 3-22b, calculate the load currer rent, load voltage, load
power, diode
power, and total power.
84
3-20 Something causes R to short in Fig. 3-23
23a. What will the
diode voltage be?What will happen to thene diode?
3-21 You measure 0 Vacross the diode of Fig. 3-23a. Next you:
check the source voltage and it reads. +5 V with respect to
ground. What is wrong with the circuit?
3-22 in Fig. 3-23b, you measure apotential of +3 Vat thejunction
of Ry and R2. (Remember, potentials are always
with respect to ground.) Next you measure 0V at the junction
of the diode and the 5-k2 resistor. Name some possible
troubles.
3-23 The forward and reverse DMM diode test reading is 0.7 V and
1.8 V. Is this diode good?
Chapter 3
SEC. 3-7 READING A DATA SHEЕT
3-24 Which diode would you select in the 1N4000 series if it has to
withstand apeak repetitive reverse voltage of 300 V?
3-25 The data sheet shows a band on one end of the diode.
What is the name of this band? Does the diode arrow
Critical Thinking
3-27 Here are some diodes and their worst-case specifications:
3-26
ofthe schematic symbol point toward or away from this band?
Boiling water has a temperature of 100°C. If you drop a
1N4001 into a pot ofboiling water, will it be destroyed or
not? Explain your answer.
3-31 Given a silicon diode with a reverse current of 5 ua at 25°C
and 100 μA at 100°C, calculate the surface leakage current.
3-32 The power is turned off and the upper end ofR₁ is grounded
in Fig. 3-23b. Now you use an ohmmeter to read the forward
and reverse resistance of the diode. Both readings are
identical. What does the ohmmeter read?
Diode
IR
1N914 10 mA at 1 V 25 nA at 20 V.
1N4001 1 A at 1.1V
10 µA at 50 V 3-33
1N1185 10 A at 0.95 V 4.6 mA at 100 V
Some systems, like burglar alarms and computers, use battery
backup just in case the main source of power should fail.
Describe how the circuit of Fig. 3-24 works.
Calculate the forward and the reverse resistance for each of
these diodes.
3-28 in Fig. 3-23a, what value should R be to get a diode current
of approximately 20 mA?
3-29 What value should R2 be in Fig. 3-23b to set up a diode
current of 0.25 mA?
3-30 A silicon diode has a forward current of 500 mA at 1 V. Use
the third approximation to calculate its bulk resistance.
Up-Down Cireuit Analysis
Figure 3-24
15-V
SOURCE
12 V
LOAD
Use Fig. 3-25 for the remaining problems. Assume increases of
approximately 10 percent in the independent variable and use
the second approximation of a diode.
For each independent variable increase, determine
what therespective dependent variable will do.Will it go up (U),
down (D); or show no change (N)? Refer to Sec. 3-6, Up-Down
Circuit Analysis, to review this procedure.
3-34 Predlct the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Vs. Check your answers. Then, answer the
Figure 3-2! -25
+Vs(12.V)
AQ
Up-down circuit analysis.
102
2DAPPROXIMATION
ひこく
Diode Theory
C
100 k2
Independent Variables
台
R
랭
R₃
V
D E P E
VA VB
N
D E N1T VA RI ABLLES
V 13 Pi P2P3
85
following questions as simply and directly as possible.
What effect does an increase in source voltage have on
the dependent variables of the circuit?
3-35 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled R₁. Check your, answers. Then summarıze your
findings in one or two sentences.
3-36 Predict the response of each dependent variable in
the tow labeled R₂. Check your answers. List the
dependent variables that decrease. Explain whythese
variables decrease, using Ohm's law or similar basic
ideas.
3-37 Predict the response of each dependent variable in
the row labeled R3. List the dependent variables that
show no change. Explain why these variables show.
no change.
3-38 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Vk. List the dependent variables that decrease.
Explain whythese variables decrease.
Job Interview Questions
For the following questions, whenever possible draw circuits,
graphs, or anyfigures that will help illustrate your answers. If
you can combine words and pictures in your explanations, you
are more likely to understand what you are talking about. Also,
if you have privacy, pretend that you are at an interview and
speak out loud. This practice will make it easier later, when the
interview actually takes place.
1. Have you ever heard of an ideal diode? If so, tell me what it
is and when you would use it.
2. One of the approximations for a diode is the second
approximation. Tell me what the equivalent circuit is and
when a silicon diode conducts.
3. Draw the diode curve and explain the different parts
of it.
4. A circuit on my lab bench keeps destroying a diode
every time I connect a new one. If I have a data sheet
for the diode, what are some of the quantities I need
to check?
5. In the most basic terms, describe what a diode acts like
when it is forward biased and when it is reverse biased.
6. What is the difference between the typical knee voltage.of
a germanium diode and a silicon diode?
7. What would be a good technique for a technician to use to
determine the current through a diode without breaking
the circuit?
8. If you suspect that there is a defective diode on a circuit
board, what steps would you take to determine whether it
is actually defective?
9. For a diode to be useful, how much larger should the
reverse resistance be than the forward resistance?
10. How might you connect a diode to prevent a second
battery from discharging in arecreational vehicle, and yet
still allow it to charge from the aiternator?
11. What instruments can you use to testst aa diode in or out of a
circuit?
12. Describe the operation of a diode in detail. Include majority
and minority carriers in your discussion.
Self-Test Answers
1. b
2. b
.9
a 17.
10. a 18. b
3. c 11. b
19. a
4. d 12.
b
20. b
5. a 13. a 21. a
6. b 14. d 22. C
7. c 15. a
8. C 16.
86 Chapter 3
Practice Problem Answers
3-1 D is reversé biased; D₂ is forward biased
3-2 Pp= 2.2 W
3-3 = 5 mA
3-4 V 2V;
= 2 mA
3-5 V4.3 V;
= 4.3 mA;
Pp = 3.01 mW
3-6 = 1.77 mA;
V= 1.77 V;
Pp= 1.24 mW
3-8 R7 10.23
I =420 mA;
V4.2 V
Pp= 335 mW
Diode Theory
87
chapter
醬
4 Diode Circuits
Most electronic systems, like HDTVs, DVD/CD players, and computers,
need a de voltage to work properly. Since the power-line voltage is
alternating, the first thing we need to do is to convert the ac line
voltage to de voltage. The section of the electronic system that
produces this de voltage is called the power supply. Within the power
supply are circuits that allow current to flow in only one direction.
These circuits are called rectifiers. This chapter discusses rectifier
circuits, filters, clippers, clampers, and voltage multipliers.
Chapter Outline
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be able to:
Draw a diagram of a half-wave
rectifierrand explain how it works.
Describe the role of the input
transformer in power supplies.
Draw a diagram of a full-wave
rectifier and explain how it works.
Draw a diagram of a bridge rectifier
and explain how it works.
4-1 The Half-Wave Rectifier Analyze a capacitor input filter and
4-2 The Transformer its surge current.
4-3 The Full-Wave Rectifier
List three important specifications
found on a rectifier data sheet.
4-4 The Bridge Rectifier
4-5 The Choke-Input Filter
Explain how a clipper works and
Graw waveforms.
4-6 The Capacitor-Input Filter
4-7 Peak Inverse Voltage and Surge
Current
Expiain how a clamper works and
draw wavetorms.
Describe the action of voltage
multipliers.
4-8
4-9
Other Power-Supply Topies
Troubleshooting
4-10 Clippers and Limiters
4-11 Clampers
4-12 Voltage Multipliers
Vocabulary
bridge rectifier
capacitor-input filter
choke-input filter
clamper
clipper
de value of a signal
filter
full-wave rectifier
half-wave rectifier
IC voltage regulator
rectifiers
ripple
surge current
surge resistor
integrated circuit
passive filter
peak detector
peak inverse voltage unidirectional load current
polarized capacitor voltage multiplier
power supply
switching regulator
68
Figure 4-1 (o) ideal half-wave
rectifier; (b) on positive half cycle;
(c) on negative half eycle.
IDEAL
(a)
CLOSED
20
(9)
OPEN
(c)
ROV
4-1 The Half-Wave Rectifier
Figure 4-1a shows a half-wave rectifier circuit. The ac source produces a sinusoidal voltage.Assuming an ideal diode, the positive half cycle of source voltage
will forward bias the diode. Since the switch is closed, as shown in Fig. 4-1b, the
positive half cycle of source voltage will appear across the load resistor. On the
negative half cycle, the diode is reverse biased. In this case, the ideal diode will
appear as an open switch, as shown in Fig. 4-1c, and no voltage appears across the
load resistor.
Ideal Waveforms
Figure 4-2a shows a graphical representation ofthe input voltage waveform. It is
a sine wave with an instantaneous value of vin and a peak value of Vp(in). A pure
sinusoid like this has an average value of zero over one cycle because each instantaneous voltage has an equal and opposite voltage half a cycle later. If you
measure this voltage with a dc voltmeter, you will get a reading of zero because a
dc voltmeter indicates the average value.
In the half-wave rectifier of Fig. 4-2b, the diode is conducting during the
positive half cycles but is nonconducting during the negative half cycles. Because
of this, the circuit clips off the negative half cycles, as shown in Fig. 4-2c. Wecall
waveform like this a half-wave signal. This half-wave voltage produces a
unidirectional load current. This means that it flows in only one direction. If the
diode were reversed, the output pulses would be negative.
a
Ahalf-wave signal like the one in Fig. 4-2c is a pulsating de voltage that
increases to a maximum, decreases to zero, and then remains at zero during the
negative half cycle. This is not the kind of de voltage we need for electronics
eequipment. What we need is a constant voltage, the same as you get from a
Figurere 4-2 (o) Input to half-wave rectifier; (b) circuit; (c) output ofhalf-wave rectific
ifier.
Vin
Vplin}
Vplout)
Vout
(a)
DEAL
(9)
}כ{
Vout
Chapter 4
GOOD TO KNOW
The rms value of a half-wave signal
can be determined with the
following formula:
Vems 1.57 Vavg
where Vavg = Vdc 0.318Vp
Another formula that works is:
Vems
V2
For any waveform, the rms value
corresponds to the equivalent de
value that will produce the same
heating effect.
battery. To get this kind of voltage, we need to filter the half-wave signal (di
discussed later in this chapter).
When you are troubieshooting, yon an use the ideal diode to anałyze a
half-wave rectifier. It's useful to remember that the peak output voltage equals the
peak input voltage:
Ideal half wave: Vp(out)Vp(in)
DC Value of Half-Wave Signal
(4-1)
The de value of a signal is the same as the average value. If you measure a signal
with a de voltmeter, the reading. will equal the average value. In basic courses the
de value of a half-wave signal is derived. The formula is:
Half wave: Vae= (4-2)
The proof of this derivation requires calculus because we have to work out the
average value over one cycle.
Since 1/= 0.318, you may see Eq. (4-2) written as:
Vdc0.318V
When the equation is written in this form, you can see that the de or average value
equals 31.8 percent of the peak value. For instance, if the peak voltage of the halfwave signal is 100 V,the de voltage or average value is 31.8 V.
Diode Circuits
Output Frequency
The output frequency is the same as the input frequency. This makes sense when
you compare Fig. 4-2c with Fig. 4-2a. Each cycle of input voltage produces
cycle of output voltage. Therefore, we can write:
one
Half wave:foutJin
(4-3)
We will use this derivation later with filters.
Second Approximation
We don't get a perfect half-wave voltage across the load resistor. Because of the
barrier potential, the diode does not turn on until the ac source voltage reaches approximately 0.7 V.When the peak source voltage is much greater than 0.7 V, the
load voltage will resemble a half-wave signal. For instance, if the peak source
voltage is 100 V, the load voltage will be very close to a perfect half-wave voltage. If the peak source voltage is only 5 V, the load voltage will have a peak of
only 4.3 V. When you need to get a better answer, use this derivation:
2d half wave: Vp(ont) Vp(in) 0.7 V
Higher Approximations
(4-4)
Most designers will make sure that the bulk resistance is much smaller than the
Thevenin resistance facing the diode. Because of this, we can ignore bulk
Ik resistance in almost every case. Ifyou must have better accuracy than you can get with
the second approximation, you should use a computer and a circuit simulator like
MultiSim.
91
92
Example 4-1
ARES
Figure 4-3 shows a half-wave rectifier that you can build on the lab bench or on a computer screen with MultiSim. An
oscilloscope iss across the 1 kn. This will show us the half-wave load voltage. Also, a multimeter is across the 1 kn to
read the dc load voltage. Calculate the theoretical values of peak load voltage and the dc load voltage. Then, compare
these values to the readings on the oscilloscope and the multimeter.
SOLUTION Figure 4-3 shows an ac source of 10 V and 60 Hz. Schematic diagrams usually show ac source voltages as
effective orr as values. Recall that the effective value is the value of a de voltage that produces the same heating
ating effect as
the ac voltage.
Figure 4-3 Lab exampie of half-wave rectifier.
XSC1
10 Vms
60 Hz
D1
1N4001GP
Tektronix
Oscilloscope
R1
ika
Agilent DMM
Tektroni 1i
timet
Agilent
FUNCTION-
*ANGE DIGIIS 00000
CHOŁGES LEVEL ENTER
CUERRT
VOILTSVDIV OLTSITHV
MATR
Fusedor
DE
Chapter 4
Since the source voltage is 10 V rms, the first thing to do is calculate the peakvalue ofthe ac source. You know
from earlier courses that the rms value of a sine wave equals:
Vrms = 0.707V,
Therefore, the peak source voltage in Fig. 4-3 is:
Vins 10 V
P-0707 0.7070.707 = 14.1V
With an ideal diode, the peak load voltage is:
Vp(out) = Vptin) 14.1 V
The dc load voltage is:
V14.1V =4.49 A
With the second approximation, we get a peak load voltage of:
Vp(out) =p(in) - 0.7 V = 14.1 V -0.7 V= 13.4 V
and a dc load voltage of:
Vp Vdc
13.4 V
.== 4.27 V
Figure 4-3 shows you the values that an oscilloscope and a multimeter will read, Channel 1 of the oscilloscope is
set at 5 Vper major division (5 V/Div). The half-wave signal has a peak value between 13 and 14 V, which agrees with the
result from our second approximation. The multimeter also gives good agreement with theoretical values, because it reads
approximately 4.22 V.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-1 Using Fig. 4-3, change the ac source voltage to 15 V. Calculate the second approximation
de load voltage VdcDiode Cir Circuits
4-2 The Transformer
Power companies in the United States supply a nominal line voltage of 120 V rms
and a frequency of 60 Hz. The actual voltage coming out of a power outlet may
vary from 105 to 125 V rms, depending on the time of day, the locality, and other
factors. Line voltage is too high for most of the circuits used in electronics equipment. This is why a transformer is commonly used in the power-supply section of
almost all electronics equipment. The transformer steps the line voltage down to
safer and lower levels that are more suitable for use with diodes, transistors, and
other semiconductor devices.
Basic Idea
Earlier courses discussed the transformer in detail. All we need in this chapter is a
brief review. Figure 4-4 shows a transformer. Here you see line voltage applied to
the primary winding of atransformer. Usually, the power plug has a third prong to
ground the equipment. Because of the turns ratio N/N2, the secondary ary voltage is
stepped down when Ni is greater than N₂.
Phasing Dots
Recall the meaning of the phasing dots shown at the upper ends ds of the windings.
Dotted ends have the same instantaneous phase. In other wowords, when a positive
half cycle appears across the primary, a positive half cyсcle appears across the
93
94
Figure 4-4 Half-wave rectifier with transformer.
N:N2
120 V
60 Hz
secondary. If the secondary dot were on the ground end, the secondary voltage
would be 180° out of phase with the primary voltage.
On the positive half cycle of primary voltage, the secondary winding has
a positive half sine wave across it and the diode is forward biased. On the negative half cycle ofprimary voltage, the secondary winding has a negative halfcycle
and the diode is reverse-biased. Assuming an ideal diode, we will get a half-wave
load voltage.
Turns Ratio
Recall from your earlier course work the following derivation:
V1. V2 =
NIN2
(4-5)
This says that the secondary voltage equals the primary voltage divided by the
turns ratio. Sometimes you will see this equivalent form:
V22 V1
This says that the secondary voltage equals the inverse turns ratio times the primary voltage.
You can use either formula for rms, peak values, and instantaneous voltages. Most of the time, we will use Eq. (4-5) with rms values because ac source
voltages are almost always specified as rms values.
Theterms step up and step down are also encountered when dealing with
transformers. These terms always relate the secondary voltage to the primary voltage. This means that a step-up transformer will produce a secondary voltage that
is larger than the primary, and a step-down transformer will produce a secondary
voltage that is smaller than the primary.
Example 4-2
What are the peak load voltage and dc load voltage in Fig. 4-5?
Figure 4-5
120 V
5:1
09 zH
Chapter 4
Diode Circuits Ci
SOLUTION The transformer hasas a turns ratio of 5:1. This means that the rms
secondary voltage is one-fifth of the he primary voltage:
120 V
√2 =5= 24 V
andnd the peak secondary voltage is:
24V
= 34 V
Vp 0.7 0.707
With an ideal diode, the peak load voltage is:
Vp(out) 34 V
The dc load voltage is:
V 34 V
Vde TT π
=
10.8 V
With the second approximation, the peak load voltage is:
Vp(out) = 34 V-0.7V= 33.3 V
and the dc load voltage is:
Vp
Vdc ==TT
33.3 V
= 10.6 V
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-2 Using Fig. 4-5, change the transformer's turns
ratio to 2:1 and solve for theideal de load voltage.
4-3 The Full-Wave Rectifier
Figure 4-6a shows a full-wave rectifier circuit. Notice the grounded center tap.
on the secondary winding. The full-wave rectifier is equivalent to two half-wave
rectifiers. Because of the center tap, each of these rectifiers has an input voltage
equal to half the secondary voltage. Diode D₁ conducts on the positive half cycłe,
and diode D2 conducts on the negative half cycle. As a result, the rectified load
current flows during both half cycles. The full-wave rectifier acts the same as two
back-to-back half-wave rectifiers.
Figure 4-6b shows the equivalent circuit for the positive half cycle. As
you see, Di is forward biased. This produces a positive load voltage as indicated
by the plus-mi olarity across the load resistor Figure 4-6c shows the equivalent circu torthe ative half cycle. This time, D2 is forward biased. As you can
see, this produ a positive load voltage.
half cycles, the load voltage has the same pola polrity and the
load current is in the same direction. The circuit is called a full--wave rectifien be
cause it has changed the ac input voltage to the pulsating de oututput voltage shown
in Fig. 4-6d. This waveform has some interesting propertiess, that we will now
discuss.
95
96
Figure 4-6 (a) Full-wave rectifier tifier; (6) equivalent circuit for positive half cycle;
c) equivalent circuit for negativeh half cycle; (d) full-wave output.
AAI
D₁
N:N2
2N:N
N1:N2
)a)
(9)
(0)
D2
D
D2.
RL
ZRHE
ㅏ
VPlout)
Vout
IDEAL mim,
(d)
RL
Chapter 4
GOOD TO KNOW
The rms value of a full-wave.signai
is Vrms= 0.707V, which is the same
as Vrms for a full sine wave.
DC or Average Value
Since the full-wave signal has twice as many positive cycles as the half-wave
signal, the dc or average value is twice as much, given by:
2Vp
Fullwave: Vdc
Since 2/π = 0.636, you may see Eq. (4-6) written as:
Vae 0.636V
(4-6)
In this form, you can see that the dc or average value equals 63.6 percent of the
peak value. For instance, if the peak voltage of the full-wave signal is 100 V, the
de voltage or average value is 63.6 V.
Output Frequency
With a half-wave rectifier, the output frequency equals the input frequency. But with
a full-wave rectifier, something unusual happens to the output frequency. The ac line
voltage has a frequency of 60 Hz. Therefore, the input period equals:
1 1
Tin = 16.7 ms
f 60 Hz
Because of the full-wave rectification, the period of the full-wave signal
is half the input period:
Tout = 0.5(16.7 ms) = 8.33 ms
(If there is any doubt in your mind, compare Fig. 4-6d to Fig. 4-2c.) When we
calculate the output frequency, we get:
fout =
1
= 120 Hz Tout 8.33 ms
The frequency of the full-wave signal is double the input frequency. This
makes sense. Afull-wave output has twice as many cycles as the sine-wave input
has. Thefull-wave rectifier inverts each negative half cycle, so that we get double
the number of positive half cycles. The effect is to double the frequency. As a
derivation:
Full wave: fout =2/in.
Second Approximation
(4-7)
Since the full-wave rectifier is like two back-to-back half-wave rectifiers, we can
use the second approximation given earlier. The idea is to subtract 0.7 V from the
ideal peak output voltage. The following example will illustrate the idea.
Example 4-3 II Mlti
Figure 4-7 shows a full-wave rectifier that you cacan build on lab bench or on a computer screen with MultiSim. Channel 1
of the oscilloscope displays the primary voltage (the sine wave), and channel 2 displays the load voltage (the full-wave
signal). Calculate the peak input and output voltages. Then compare the theoretical values to the measured values.
SOLUTION
The peak primary voltage is:
Vms
120 V
Vpt)0.7070.707
170 V
Diode Circuits
Figure 4-7 Lab cxample offull-wave rectifier.
120
09
Vrms
 ZH
d Tektronic lic
Tektruni
Channel 1
D1
10:1
318
1N404001GP
LR1
D2
1N40011GP
VOLTSADIY
1K0
X$c1
Channel, 2
OLTSJOIV VOLTSIDV
Kourso
Because of the 10:1 step-down transformer, the peak secondary voltage is:
Vp() 170V Vp2)N/N210=17V
The full-wave rectifier acts like two back-to-back half-wave rectifiers. Because of the center tap, the input voltage
to each half-wave rectifier is only half the secondary voltage:
Vp(in) = 0.5(17 V) = 8.5 V
Ideally, the output voltage is:
Vp(out) = 8.5 V
Using the second approximation:
Vp(out) = 8.5 V - 0.7 V = 7.8 V
Now, let's compare the theoretical values with the measured values. The sensitivity of channel 1 is 100 V/Div.
Since the sine-wave input reads approximately 1.7 divisions, its peak valuę is approximately 170 V. Channel 2 has a
98
Chapter 4
sensitivity of 5 V/Div. Since the full-wave output reads approximately 1.4 Div, its peak value is approximately 7V. Both
input and output readings are in reasonable agreement with theoretical values.
Once again, notice that the second approximation improves the answer only slightly. Ifyou were troubleshooting,
the improvement would not be of much value. If something was wrong with the circuit, the chances are that the full-wave
output would be drastically different from the ideal value of 8.5.V.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-3 Using Fig.4-7, change the transformer's turns ratio to 5:1 and calculate the V₂(in) and Vp (out) second approximation values.
Example 4-4
If one of the diodes in Fig. 4-7 were open, what would happen to the different voltages?
II MultiSim
SOLUTION If one of the diodes is open, the circuitreverts to a half-wave rectifier. In this case, half the secondary
voltage is still 8.5 V, but the load voltage will be a half-wave signal rather than a full-wave signal. This half-wave voltage
will still have a peak of 8.5 V(ideally) or 7.8 V(second approximation).
Diode Circuits
4-4 The Bridge Rectifier.
Figure 4-8a shows a bridge rectifier circuit. The bridge rectifier is similar to a
full-wave rectifier because it produces a full-wave output voltage. Diodes D₁ and
D₂ conduct onthe positive half cycle, and D₂ and D4conduct onthe negative half
cycle. As a result, the rectified load current flows during both halfcycles
Figure 4-8b shows the equivalent circuit for the positive half cycle. As
you can see, D1and D₂ are forward biased. This produces a positive load voltage
as indicated by the plus-minus polarity across the load resistor. As a memory aid,
visualize D₂ shorted. Then, the circuit that remains is a half-wave rectifier, which
we are already familiar with.
Figure 4-8c shows the equivalent círcuit for the negative half cycle. This
time, D3 and D4 are forward biased. This also produces a positive load voltage. If
you visualize D3 shorted, the circuit looks like a half-wave rectifier. So the bridge
rectifier acts like two back-to-back half-wave rectifiers.
During both half cycles, the load voltage has the same polarity and the
load current is in the same direction. The circuit has changed the ac input voltage
to the pulsating dc output voltage shown in Fig. 4-8d. Note the advantage of this
type of full-wave rectification over the center-tapped version in the previous
section: The entire secondary voltage can be used.
Fig. 4-8e shows bridge rectifier packages that contain all four diodes.
Average Value and Output Frequency
Because a bridge rectifier produces a full-wave output, the equations for average
value and outputfrequency are the same as given for a full-wave rectifier ver
V 2Vp.
TT
66
GOOD TO KNOW
When a bridge rectifier, as opposed
to a two-diode full-wave rectifier,
is used, the same de output voltage
çan be obtained with a transformer
having a higher turns ratio N/N2.
This means that with a bridge
rectifier, fewer turns of wire are
needed in the transformer.
Therefore, the transformer used
with a bridge rectifier versus a
two-diode full-wave rectifier will
be small and lighter and will cost
less. This benefit alone outweighs
using four diodes instead of two in.
a conventional two-diode full-wave
rectifier
Figure 4-8 (a) Bridge rectifier; (b) equivalent circuit for positive half cycle; (c) equivalent
circuit for negative half cycle; (d) full-wave output; (e) bridge rectifier packages.
N:N₂
(a)
N₁:N2
Da D
D₂ DA R,
D2
D
100
(b)
N:N2
D3
(c)
D
Vout
Vp m
and
fout2fin
(d)
t
The average value is 63.6 percent of the peak value, and the output frequency is
120 Hz, given a line frequency of 60 Hz.
One advantage of a bridge rectifier is that all the secondary voltage is
used as the input to the rectifier. Given the same transformer, we get twice as
much peak voltage and twice as much de voltage with a bridge rectifier as with a
full-wave rectifier. Doubling the dc output voltage compensates for having to use
two extra diodes. As a rule, you will see the bridge rectifier used a lot more than
the full-wave rectifier.
Chapter 4
Figure 4-8 (continued)
GBPC-W
KBPM
WOB
SOIC-4
GBU
)e)
©Brian Moeskau/Brian Moeskau Photography
GBPC
Incidentally, the full-wave rectifier was in use for many years before the
bridge rectifier was used. For this reason, it has retained the name ful full-wave recti
fier even though a bridge rectifier also has a full-wave output. To distir stinguish the
full-wave rectifier from the bridge rectifier, some literature may refer .to a full
waverectifier as a conventional full-wave rectifier, a two-diode full-wа wave rectiher,
or a center-tapped full-wave rectifier.
Second Approximation and Other Losses
Since the bridge rectifier has two diodes in the conducting path, the рeak output.
voltage is given by:
2d bridge: Vp(our) = Vp(n)-1.4 V (4-8)
As you can see, we have to subtract two diode drops from the peak to get a n
et a more
accurate value of peak load voltage. Summary Table 4-1 compares the threee rec
tifiers and their properties.
Summary Table 4-1 Unfiltered Rectifiers
Half-wave Full-wave Bridge
Number of diodes
Rectifier input. Vp(2) 0.5Vp(2) Vp(2)
Peak output (ideal) Vpl2} 0.5Vp(2) Vp(2)
Peak output (2d) Vp(2)-0.7.V 0.5V(2)- 0.7 V Vp(2)- 1:4 V
DC output Vplout)/π 2Vplout)/TT 2Vplout)/
Ripple frequency 2fin
Diode Circucuits
fin
V2)= peak secondary voltage; Vptout) peak output voltage.
2fin
101
Example 4-5
Calculate the peak input and output voltages in Fig. 4-9, Then, compare the theoretical values to the measured
values.
Notice the circuit uses a bridge rectifier package.
SOLUTION The peak primary and secondary voltages are the same as in Example 4-3:
Vp(1) 170 V
Vp(2) = 17 V
With a bridge rectifier, all ofthe secondary voltage is used as the input to the rectifier. Ideally, the peak output
uitiSim
voltage is:
Vp(out) 17 A
Figure 4-9 Lab example'of bridge rectifier.
102
Channel 1
10:1
120 Vrms
60 HZ
Smulated Tektronix Dsc||loscope-XSC1
Tektronix :IOS 2024 (REP S CPE
Coarse
XSC1
Channe1
SR1
1K
2
Chapter 4
To a second approximation:
Vp(out) 17 V - 1.4 V.= 15.6 V
Now, let's compare the theoretical values with the measured values. The sensitivity of channel 1 is 100 V/Div.
Since the sine-wave input reads approximately 1.7 Div, its peak value is approximately 170 V. Channel 2 has a sensitivity
of 5 V/Div. Since the half-wave output reads approximately 3.2 Div, its peak value is approximately 16 V. Both input and
output readings are approximately the same as the theoretical values.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-5
5:1 transformer turns ratio.
As in Example 4-5, calculate the ideal and second approximation V,(out) values using a
Diode Circuits
4-5 The Choke-Input Filter
At one time, the choke-input filter was widely used to filter the output of a rectifier.
Although not used much anymore because ofits cost, bulk, and weight, this type of
filter has instructional value and helps make it easier to understand other filters.
Basic Idea
Look at Fig. 4-10a. This type of filter is called a choke-input filter. The ac source
produces a current in the inductor, capacitor, and resistor. The ac current in each
component depends on the inductive reactance, capacitive reactance, and fhe
resistance. The inductor has a reactance given by:
XL= 2TfL
The capacitor has a reactance given by:
2#fC
As you learned in previous courses, the choke (or inductor) has the primary characteristic of opposing a change in current. Because of this, a choke-input filter ideally reduces the ac current in the load resistor to zero. To a second approximation,
it reduces the ac load current to a very small value. Let us find out why.
The first requirement of a well-designed choke-input filter is to have Xc
at the input frequency be much smaller than Rt.When this condition is satisfied,
we can ignore the load resistance and use the equivalent circuit of Fig. 4-10b. The
second requirement of a well-designed choke-input filter is to ve Xz be much
greater than Xe at the input frequency. When this condition is satisfied, the ac
Figure u 4-10 filter; (6) ac equivalent circuit. (a) Choke
Vin
7
(a)
Vout
R
Tx
(9)
Vou
103
104
output voltage approaches zero. Onthe other hand, since the choke approximates
a short circuit at 0 Hz and the capacitor approximates an open at 0 Hz, the de current can be passed to the load resistance with minimum loss.
In Fig. 4-10b, the circuit acts like a reactive voltage divider. When Xz is
much greater than Xc, almost all the ac voltage is dropped across the choke. In this
case, the ac output voltage equals:
Xc
Vout CVin
XL
(4-9)
For instance, if Xz = 10 k, Xc = 100 2, and Vim = 15 V, the ac output voltage is:
100 Ω
Vout
10 ΚΩ
15 V = 0.15 V
In this example, the choke-input filter reduces the ac voltage by a factor of 100.
Filtering the Output of a Rectifier
Figure 4-11a shows a choke-input filter between arectifier and a load. The rectifier can be a half-wave, full-wave, or bridge type. What effect dodoes the chokeFigure 4-11 (o) Rectifier with choke-input filter; (b) rectifier outpu tput has de and ac
compo nponents; (c) de equivalent circuit; (d) filter output is direct current ent with small ripple.
RECTIFIER
C RL
RECTIFIED
OUTPUT
(a)
DC VOLTAGE
VP
RECTIFIER
FILTERED
OUTPUT
0.636 Vp
As
(이)
(P)
Chapter 4
Diode Circuits
input filter have on the load voltage? The easiest way to solve this problem is to
use the superposition theorem. Recall what this theorem says: If you have two or
more sources, you can analyze the circuit for each source separately and then add
the individual voltages to get the total voltage.
The rectifier output has two different components: a dc voltage (the
average value) and an ac voltage (the fluctuating.part), as shown in Fig. 4-11b.
Each of these voltages acts like a separate source. As far as the ac voltage is concerned, Xz is much greater than Xc, and this results in very little ac voltage across
the load resistor. Even though the ac component is not a pure sine wave, Eq. (4-9)
is still a close approximation for the ac load voltage.
The circuit acts like Fig. 4-11c as far as de voltage is concerned. At 0 Hz,
the inductive reactance is zero and the capacitive reactance is infinite. Only the
series resistance of the inductor windings remains. Making Rs much smaller than
Rt causes most of the dc component to appear across the load resistor.
That's how a choke-input filter works: Almost all of the de component is
passed on to the load resistor, and almost all of the ac component is blocked. In
this way, we get an almost perfect de voltage, one that is almost constant, like the
voltage out ofabattery. Figure 4-11d shows the filtered output for a full-wave signal. The only deviation from a perfect de voltage is the small ac load voltage
shown in Fig. 4-11d. This small ac load voltage is called ripple. With an oscilloscope, we can measure its peak-to-peak value.
Main Disadvantage A power supply is the circuit inside electronics equipment that converts the ac
input voltage to an almost perfect dc output voltage. It includes
 a rectifier and a
filter. The trend nowadays is toward low-voltage, high-current power supplies.
Because line frequency is only 60 Hz, large inductances have to be used to get
enough reactance for adequate filtering. But large inductors have large winding
resistances, which create a serious design problem with large load currents.
other words, too much dc voltage is dropped across the choke resistance. Furthermore, bulky inductors are not suitable for modern semiconductor circuits, where
the emphasis is on lightweight designs.
Switching Regulators
In
One important application does exist for the choke-input filter. Aswitching regulator is a special kind of power supply used in computers, monitors, and an increasing variety of equipment. The frequency used in a switching regulator is
much higher than 60 Hz. Typically, the frequency being filtered is above 20 kHz.
At this much higher frequency, we can use much smaller inductors to design efficient choke-input filters. We will discuss the details in a later chapter.
4-6 The Capacitor-Input Filter
The choke-input filter produces adc output voltage equal to the average value of
the rectified voltage. The capacitor-input filter produces
 a de output voltage
equal to the peak value of the rectified voltage. This type of filter is the most widely used in power supplies.
Basic Idea
Figure 4-12a shows an ac source, a diode, and a capacitor. The key to understanding a capacitor-input filter is understanding what this simple circuit does during the first quarter cycle. 105
106
Figure 4-12 (a) Unigaded capacitof-input filter; {b) output is pure de voltage;
(c) capacitor remains charged when diode is off.
IDEAL
Vin
(a)
Vout
Vp:
Vout
Vin
Vin < Vp VP
(c)
(9)
of Initially, the capacitor is uncharged. During the firstt quarter cycle
Fig. 4-12b, the diode is forward biased. Since it ideally acts like a clo
closed switch, the
capacitor charges, and its voltage equals the source voltage at each instan ant ofthe first
quarter cycle. The charging continues until the input reaches its maximur
um value. At
this point, the capacitor voltage equals Vp.
After the input voltage reaches the peak, it starts to decrease. As soon as
the input voltage is less than V₂, the diode turns off. In this case, it acts like the
open switch of Fig. 4-12c. During the remaining cycles, the capacitor stays fully
charged and the diode remains open. This is why the output voltage of Fig. 4-12b
is constant and equal to Vp.
to
the
Ideally, all that the capacitor-input filter does is charge the capacitor
the peak voltage during the first quarter cycle. This peak voltage is constant,
perfect de voltage we need for electronics equipment. There's only one problem:
There is no load resistor.
Effect of Load Resistor
For the capacitor-input filter to be useful, we need to connect a load resistor across
the capacitor, as shown in Fig. 4-13a. As long as the R₁C time constant is much
greater than the period, the capacitor remains almost fully charged and the load
voltage is approximately Vp. The only deviation from a perfect de voltage is the
small ripple seen in Fig. 4-13b. The smaller the peak-to-peak value of this ripple,
the more closely the output approaches a perfect dc voltage.
Between peaks, the diode is off and the capacitor discharges through the
load resistor. In other words, the capacitor supplies the load current. Since the
capacitor. discharges only slightly between peaks, the peak-to-peak ripple is small.
When the next peak arrives, the diode conducts briefly and recharges the capacitor to the peak.value. A key question is: What size should the capacitor be for
proper operation? Before discussing capacitor size, consider what happens with
the other rectifier circuits.
Full-Wave Filtering
Ifwe connect a full-wave or bridge rectifier to a capacitor-input filter, the peak-topeak ripple is cut in half. Figure 4-13c shows why. When a full-wave voltage is
Chapter 4
Figure 4-13 (d) Loaded capacitor-input filter; (b) output is direct current with small
ripple; (c) full wave output has less ripple.
IDEAL
Vp
Vin 2 C RL
(a)
Vp
V V V
(c)
Vin
V
Vout
AA
(b)
GOOD TO KNOW
Another, more accurate formula
can be used to determine the ripple
out of any capacitor input filter.
It is
VR = V(out) (1-€/R)
Time t represents the length of
time the filter capacitor Cis
allowed to discharge. For a
half-wave rectifier, t can be
approximated as 16.67 ms, whereas
8.33 ms can be used for a full-wave
rectifier.
applied to the RC circuit, the capacitor discharges for only half as long. Therefore,
the peak-to-peak ripple is half the size it would be with a half-wave rectifier.
The Ripple Formula
Here is a derivation we will use to estimate the peak-to-peak ripple out of any
capacitor-input filter:
VR =fc
where VR = peak-to-peak ripple voltage
I = dc load current
f = ripple frequency
C= capacitance
(4-10)
This is an approximation, not an exact derivation. We can use this formula to
estimate the peak-to-peak ripple. When a more accurate answer is needed, one
solution is to use a computer with a circuit simulator like MultiSim.
For instance, if the de load current is 10 mA and the capacitance is
200 µF, the ripple with a bridge rectifier and a capacitor-input filter is:
10 mA
VR = 0.417 V pp (120 Hz)(200 µF)
In using this derivation, remember two things. First, the ripple is in peakto-peak (pp) voltage. This is useful because you normally measure ripple voltage
with an oscilloscope. Second, the formula works with half-wave or full-wave
voltages. Use 60 Hz for half-wave, and 120 Hz for full-wave.
You should use an oscilloscope for ripple measurements if one is avail
able. If not, you can use an ac voltmeter, although there will be a significant error
in the measurement. Most ac voltmeters are calibrated to read the rms value of a
sine wave. Since the ripple is not a sine wave, you may get a measurement error
of as much as 25 percent, depending on the design of the ac'voltmeter. But this
should be no problem when you are troubleshooting, since you will be looking for
much larger changes in ripple.
Diode Circuits 107
108
If you do use an ac voltmeter to measure the ripple, you can conver
vert the
peak-to-peak value given by Eq. (4-10) to an rms value using the following
formula for a sine wave:
Vpp
Vrms 2√2
Dividing by 2 converts the peak-to-peak value to a peak value, and dividing by
V2 gives the rms value of a sine wave with the same peak-to-peak value as the
ripple voltage.
Exact DC Load Voltage
It is difficult to calculate the exact dc load voltage in a bridge rectifier with a
capacitor-input filter. To begin with, we have the two diode drops that are subtracted from the peak voltage. Besides the diode drops, an additional voltage drop
occurs, as follows: The diodes conduct heavily when recharging the capacitor
because they are on for only a short time during each cycle. This brief but large
current has to flow through the transformer windings and the bulk resistance of
the diodes. In our examples, we will calculate either the ideal output or the output
with the second approximation of a diode,remembering that the actual dc voltage
is slightly lower.
Example 4-6
What is the de load voltage and ripple in Fig. 4-14?
SOLUTION The rms secondary voltage is:
120 V
V2=524 V
The peak secondary voltage is:
24 V
34 V Vp0.707
Assuming an ideal diode and small ripple, the dc load voltage is:
To
VL 34 V
alculate the ripple, we first need to get the de load curren
V 341
4 V
11= R5k =6.8 mA
Figure 4-14 Half-wave rectifier and capacitor-input filter.
120 V
60 Hz
V
1N4001
5:1
る
100 F 5 k2
Chapter 4
Diode Circuits
Figure 4-15
120 V
60 Hz
Full-wave rectifier and capacitor-input filter.
5:1 IDEAL
100 UF 5 k2
IDEAL
Now we can use Eq. (4-10) to get:
VR
6.8 mA
(60 Hz)(100 µF)
.1.13 V pp 1.1 V pp
Werounded the ripple to two significant digits because it is an approximation
and cannot be accurately measured with an oscilloscope with greaterprecision
Here is how to improve the answer slightly: There is about 0.7 VacroTOSS
a silicon diode when it is conducting. Therefore, the peak voltage across the load
will be closer to 33.3 V than to 34 V. The ripple also lowers the dc voltage
slightly. So the actual de load voltage will be closer to 33 Vthan to 34 V. But
these are minor deviations. Ideal answers are usually adequate for troubleshooting and preliminary analysis.
A final point about the circuit. The plus sign on the filter capacitor
indicates a polarized capacitor, one whose plus side must be connected to the
positive rectifier output. In Fig. 4-15, the plus sign on the capacitor case is correctly connected to the positive output voltage. You must look carefully at the
capacitor case when you are building or troubleshooting a circuit to find out
whether it is polarized or not.
Power supplies often use polarized electrolytic capacitors because this
type can provide high values ofcapacitance in small packages. As discussed in
earliercourses, electrolytic capacitors must be connected with the correct polarity to produce the oxide film. If an electrolytic capacitor is connected in opposite
polarity, it becomes hot and may explode.
Example 4-7
What is the dc load voltage and ripple in Fig. 4-15?
|II MtiSim
SOLUTION Since the transformer is 5:1 step-down like the preceding
example, the peak secondary voltage is still 34 V. Half this voltage is the input
to each half-wave section.Assuming an ideal diode and small ripple, the dc load
voltage is:
VL = 17 V
The de load current is:
17 V
IL 5 k 3.4 mA
Now, Eq. (4-10) gives:
3.4 mA
VR = = 0.283 V pp 0.28 V pp (120 Hz)(100 µF)
109
110
Because of the 0.7 V across the conducting diode, the actual dc load vóltage will
be closer to 16 V than to 17 V.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-7 Using Fig. 4-15, change R₁ to 2 K and
calculate the new ideal de load voltage and ripple.
Example 4-8
MaltiSi
What is the de load voltage and ripple in Fig. 4-16? Compare the answers with
those in the two preceding examples.
SOLUTION Since the transformer is 5:1 step-down as in the preceding example, the peak secondary voltage is still 34 V. Assuming an ideal diode and
small ripple, the dc load voltage is:
VL 34 VA
The dc load current is:
34 V
1140=6.8 mA 5ΚΩ
Now, Eq. (4-10) gives:
6.8 mA
VR (120 HIZ)(100 )
= 0.566 V pp 0.57 Vpp
Because of the 1.4 V across twó conducting diodes and the ripple, the actual de
load voltage will be closer to 32 V than to 34 V.
Wehave calculated the dc load voltage and ripple for the three different
rectifiers. Here are the results:
Half wave: 34 V and 1.13 V
Full wave: 17 V and 0.288 A
Bridge: 34 V and 0.566 V
For a given transformer, the bridge rectifier is better than the half-wave rectifier
because it has less ripple, and it's better than the full-wave rectifier because it
produces twice as much output voltage. Of the three, the bridge rectifier has
emerged as the most popular.
Figure 4-16 Bridge rectifier and capacitor-input filter.
120 V
60'Hz
5:1
IDEAL
100 4/F
5 k0
Chapter 4
Example 4-9 MultiSim
Figure 4-17 shows the values measured with MultiSim. Calculate the theoretical load voltatage and ripple and compare
them to the measured values.
Figure 4-17 Lab example of bridge rectifier and capacitor-input filter.
120 Vrms
60 HZ
15:1
Power
XSC1
XMMMI
d Aglient Multimeter-XMM1
Agilent
09.90479 VDC
ektronix
Channel 1
4700 uF
R1
35000
Diode Circuits 111
SOLUTIO ION The transformer is a 15:1 step-down, so the rms secondary voltage is
V
120 V A8=
15
andnd the peak secondary voltage is:
8V
Vp 0.707= 11.3 V
Let's use the second approximation of the diodes to get the de load voltage:
Vz = 11.3 V - 1.4 V = 9.9 V
To calculate the ripple, we first need to get the dc load current:
=71
9.9 V
= 19.8 mA 500 Ω
Now, we can use Eq. (4-10) to get:
VR
19.8 mA
(120 Hz)(4700 µF)
= 35 mV pp
In Fig. 4-17, a multimeter reads a de load voltage of 9.9 V.
Channel 1 of the oscilloscope is set to 10 mV/Div. The peak-to-peak ripple is approximately 2.9 Div and the
measured ripple is 29.3 mV. This is less than the theoretical value of 35 mV,which emphasizes the point made earlier.
Equation (4-10) is to be used for estimating ripple. Ifyou need more accuracy, use computer simulation software.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-9 Change the capacitor value in Fig. 4-17 to 1,000 µF. Calculate thenew VR value.
112
4-7 Peak Inverse Voltage and
Surge Current
The peak inverse voltage (PIV) is the maximum voltage across the nonconducting diode of a rectifier. This voltage must be less than the breakdown voltage of the
diode; otherwise, the diode will be destroyed. The peak inverse voltage depends
on the type of rectifier and filter. The worst case occurs with the capacitor-input
filter.
As discussed earlier, data sheets from various manufacturers use many
different symbols to indicate the maximum reverse voltage rating of a diode.
Sometimes, these symbols indicate different conditions of measurement. Some of
the data sheet symbols for the maximum reverse voltage rating are PIV, PRV, VB,
VBR. VR. VRRM, VRWM, and VR(max)
Half-Wave Rectifier with Capacitor-Input Filter
Figure 4-18a shows the critical part of a half-wave rectifier. This is the part of the
circuit that determines how much reverse voltage is across the diode. The rest of
the circuit has no effect and is omitted for the sake of clarity. In theworse case, the
peak secondary voltage is on the negative peak and the capacitor is fully charge
Chapter 4
Figure 4-18 (d) Peak invers ersevoltage
in half-wave rectifier; (b) peak inv inverse
voltage in full-wave rectifier; (c) peak pe
inverse voltage in bridge-wave rect ectifier.
2Vp
}a)
Vp
with a voltage of Vp.Apply Kirchhoff's voltage law, and you car can see right away
that the peak inverse voltage across the nonconducting diode is:
PIV 2V (4-11)
For instance, if the peak secondary voltage is 15 V, the peak inverse erse voltage is
30 V. As long as the breakdown voltage of the diode is greater than a this, the diode
will not be damaged.
Full-Wave Rectifier with Capacitor-Input Filt ilter
Figure 4-18b shows the essential part of a full-wave rectifier needed to
о calculate
the peak inverse voltage. Again, the secondary voltage is at the negative peak. In
this case, the lower diode acts like a short (closed switch) and the upper diode is
open. Kirchhoff's law implies:
Vp
Diode Circuits
PIV= V (4-12)
SHORT
(9)
)c(
SHORT
Vp
Bridge Rectifier with Capacitor-Input Filter
Figure 4-18c shows part of a bridge rectifier. This is all you need to calculate the
peak inverse voltage. Since the upper diode is shorted and the lower one is open,
the peak inverse voltage across the lower diode is:
PIVVp (4-13)
Another advantage ofthe bridge rectifier is that it has the lowest peak inverse voltage for a given load voltage. To produce the same load voltage, the full-wave rectifier would need twice as much secondary voltage.
Surge Resistor
Before the power is turned on, the filter capacitor is uncharged. At the first instant.
the power is applied, this capacitor looks like a short. Therefore, the initial charging current may be very large. All that exists in the charging path to impede the
current is the resistance of the transformer windings and the bulk resistance of the
diodes. The initial rush of current when the power is turned on is called the surge
current.
Ordinarily, the designer of the power supply will select a diode with
enough current rating to withstand the surge current. The key to the surge current
is the size of the filter capacitor. Occasionally, a designer may decide to use a
surge resistor rather than select another diode.
Figure 4-19 illustrates the idea. Asmall resistor is inserted between the
bridge rectifier and the capacitor-input filter. Without the resistor, the surge current might destroy the diodes. By including the surge resistor, the designer reduces the surge current to a safe level. Surge resistors are not used very often and
are mentioned just in case you see one used in a power supply.
Figure 4-19 Surge resistor limits surge current.
120 V
60 Hz
N:N2
2
Asurge
RL
113
Example 4-10
What is the peak inverse voltage in Fig. 4-19 if the turns ratio is 8:1? A 1N4001
has a breakdown voltage of 50 V. Is it safe to use a 1N4001 in this circuit?
SOLUTION
V2
The rms secondary voltage is:
120 V
8
=15 V
The peak secondary voltage is:
15 V
Vp=0.707 =21.2 V
The peak inverse voltage is:
PIV = 21.2 V
The 1N4001 is more than adequate, since the peak inverse voltage is much less
than the breakdown voltage of 50 V.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 4-10 Using Fig.4-19, change the transformer's
turns ratio to 2:1. Which 1N4000 series of diodes should you use?
GOOD TO KNOW
When a transformer is unloaded
the secondary voltage üsually
measures a value that is 5 to
10 percènt higher than its rated
value.
4-8 Other Power-Supply Topics
You have a basic idea of how power-supply circuits work. In the preceding sections, you have seen how an ac input voltage is rectified and filtered to get a de
voltage. There are a few additional ideas you need to know about.
Commercial Transformers
The use of turns ratios with transformers applies only to ideal transformers. Iron
core transformers are different. In other words, the transformers you buy from a
parts supplier are not ideal because the windings have resistance, which produces
power losses. Furthermore, the laminated core has eddy currents, which produce
additional power losses. Because of these unwanted powerlosses, the turns ratio
is only an approximation. In fact, the data sheets for transformers rarely list the
turns ratio. Usually, all you get is the secondary voltage at arated current.
For instance, Fig. 4-20a shows an F-25X, an industrial transformer
whose data sheet gives only the following specifications: for a primary voltage of
115 Vac, the secondary voltage is 12.6 V ac when the secondary current is 1.5 A.
If the secondary current is less than 1.5 A in Fig. 4-20a, the secondary voltage will
be more than 12.6 V ac because of lower power losses in the windings and lami
nated core.
If it is necessary to know the primary current, you can estimate the turns
ratio of a real transformer by using this definition:
N V1
N2 V2
(4-14)
114 Chapter 4
Diode Circuits
Figure 4-20 (o) Rating on real transformer; (b) calculating fuse current.
1.5 A
115 V
60 Hz
F-25X 12.6 V
115 V 0.1 A
60 Hz
F-25X
(a)
{9)
1.2 A
FILTERED
RECTIFIER
15V 10
び
For instance, the F25X has V₁ = 115 V and V2 = 12.6 V. The turns ratio at the
rated load current of 1.5 A is:
N 115
=9.13 №2. 12.6
This is an approximation because the calculated turns ratio decreases when the
load current decréases.
Calculating Fuse Current
When troubleshooting, you may need to calculate the primary current to determine whether a fuse is adequate or not. The easiest way to do this with areal transformer is to assume that theinput power equals the output power: Pin Pout- For
instance, Fig. 4-20b shows a fused transformer driving a filtered rectifier. Is the
0.1-A fuse adequate?
Here is how to estimate the primary current when troubleshooting. The
output power equals the de load power:
Pout = VI =(15 V)(1.2 A) = 18 W
Ignore the power losses in the rectifier and the transformer. Since the input power
must equal the output power:
Pin = 18 W
Since Pin V₁1, we can solve for the primary current:
= 18 W =0.156 A
=
115 V
This is only an estimate because we ignored the power losses in the transformer
and rectifier. The actual primary current will be higher by about 5 to 20 percent
because of these additional losses. In any case, the fuse is inadequate. It should be
at least 0.25 A.
Slow-Blow Fuses
Assume that a capacitor-input filter is used in Fig. 4-20b. If an ordina nary 0.25-A
fuse is used in Fig. 4-20b, it will blow outwhen you turn the power on. The reasor
is the surge current, described earlier. Most power supplies use a slow-blow fuse,
115
116
one that can temporarily withstand overloads in current. For instance, a 0.25-A
slow-blow fuse can withstand
2 A for 0.1 s
1.5 Afor is
1 Afor 2 s
and so on. With a slow-blow fuse, the circuit has time to charge the capacitor. Then,
the primary current drops down to its normal level with the fuse still intact.
Calculating Diode Current
Whether a half-wave rectifier is filtered or not, the average current through the
diode has to equal the dc load current because there is only one path for current.
As a derivation:
Half wave: Idiode =Iас (4-15)
On the other hand, the average current through a diode in the full-wave
rectifier equals only half the de load current because there are two diodes in the
circuit, each sharing the load. Similarly, each diode in a bridge rectifier has to
withstand an average current of half the de load current. As a derivation:
Full wave: Idiode = 0.5Ide (4-16)
Summary Table 4-2 compares the properties of the three capacitor-input filtered
rectifiers.
Reading a Data Sheet
Refer to the data sheet of the 1N4001 in Chap. 3, Fig. 3-16. The maximum peak
repetitive reverse voltage, VRRM onthe data sheet, is the same as the peak inverse
voltage discussed earlier. The data sheet says that the IN4001 can withstand a
voltage of 50 V in the reverse direction.
The average rectified forward current--IF(av), I(max), or Io is the de or
average current through the diode. For a half-wave rectifier, the diode curren
equals thehe de load current. For a full-wave or bridge rectifier, it equals'half
lf the dc
load current. The data sheet says that a IN4001 can have a dc current of 1 A
which means that the dc load current can be as much as 2 A in a bridge rectifier. re
Summary Table 4-2
Number of diodes
Capacitor
Rectitiers
-Input Filtered
Нalf-wave Füll-waveRBBridoe
2
Rectifier input Vpt2)
0.5V2) 12)
DC outp utput (ideal) Vp2) 0.5Vp2) Vpl2)
DC output (2d) Vp2)0.7 V 0.5V(2) 0.7V Va2)1.4 V
Ripple frequency fin 2 fin 2fin
PIV 2V2) Vp2)
Vpiz)
Diode current Ide 0.5/de 0.57ae
*Vp() = peak secondary voltage; Vout) =peak output voltage; a = dcload current.
Chapter 4
Figure 4-21 (0) RC.filtering; (b) LCfiltering; (d) voltage-regulator filtering.
R
BRIDGE
RECTIFIER C
SECTION- SECTION
(a)
BRIDGE
RECTIFIER
7
SECTIONSECTION
(9)
김
BRIDGE
RECTIFIER C
IC
VOLTAGE
REGULATOR
RL
Diode Circuits
Notice also the surge-current rating IFSM. The data sheet says thattat a 1N4001
withstand 30 A during the first cycle when the power is turned on.
RC Filters
can
Before the 1970s, passive filters (R, L, and C components) were often connected
between the rectifier and the load resistance. Nowadays, you rarely see passive
filters used in semiconductor power supplies, but there might be special applications, such as audio power amplifiers, in which you might encounter them.
Figure 4-21a shows a bridge rectifier and a capacitor-input filter. Usually, a designer will settle for a peak-to-peak ripple of as much as 10 percent
across the filter capacitor. The reason for not trying to get even lower ripple is
because the filter capacitor would become too large.Additional filtering is then
done byRCsections between the filter capacitor and the load resistor.
The RC sections are examples of a passive filter, one that uses only R, L,
or Ccomponents. By deliberate design, R is much greater than Xe at the ripple frequency. Therefore, the ripple is reduced before it reaches the load resistor. Typi- cally, R is at least 10 times greater than Xc. This means that each section attenuates (reduces) the ripple by a factor of at least 10. The disadvantage of an RCfilter
is the loss of de voltage across each R. Because of this, the RC filter is suitable
only for very light loads (small load current or large load resistance).
LC Filter
When the loadcurrent is large, the LCfilters ofFig. 4-21b are an improvement over
RCfilters. Again, the idea is to drop the ripple across the series componenents, in this
case, the inductors. By making Xz much greater than Xc, we can reduce
cethe ripple
to a very low level. The de voltage drop across the inductors is much smaller than
it is across the resistors of RC sections because the winding resistance is smaller.
The LCfilter was very popular at one time. Now, it's becoming obsolete ob
in typical power supplies because ofthe size and cost of inductors. For low-v-voltage
117
Table 4-3 | Power Supply Block Diagram Summary
AC Input
Transformer
DC
WM
Filter Regulator
RL
Purpose
Provides proper
secondary ac
voltage and ac
ground isolation
Changes ac input
to pulsating de
Smooths
out de pulses
Provides a constant
output voltage j under
varying loads and and ac
input voltage
Types Step-up, step-down,
isolation (1:1)
Half-wave, fullwave, full-wave
bridge
Choke-input,
Discrete
capacitor components,
input integrated
circuit (IC)
GOOD TO KNOW
Afilter made of an inductor placed
in between two capacitors is often
called api (㎡) fitter.
118
power supplies, the LC filter has been replaced by an integrated circuit
This is a device that contains diodes, transistors, resistors, and other compor ponents
in a miniaturized package to perform a specific function.
(AC).
Figure 4-21c illustrates the idea. An IC voltage regulator, one type of
integrated circuit, is between the filter capacitor and the load resistor. This device
not only reduces the ripple, it also holds the outputvoltage constant. We will discuss IC voltage regulators in a later chapter. Because of their low cost, IC voltage
regulators are now the standard method used for ripple reduction:
Summary Table 4-3 breaks the power supply down into functional blocks.
4-9 Troubleshooting
Almost every piece of electronics equipment has a power supply, typically a rectifier driving a capacitor-input filter followed by a voltage regulator (discussed
later). This power supply produces the de voltages needed by transistors and other
devices. If a piece of electronics equipment is not working properly, start your
troubleshooting with the power supply. More often than not, equipment failure is
caused by troubles in the powersupply.
Procedure
Assume that you are troubleshooting the circuit of Fig. 4-22. You can start by
measuring the dc load voltage. It should be approximately the same as the peak
secondary voltage. Ifnot, there are two possible courses of action.
First, if there is no load voltage, you can use a floating VOM or DMM to
measure the secondary voltage (ac range). The reading is the rms voltage across the
secondary winding. Convert this to peak value. You can estimate the peakvalue by
adding 40 percent to the rms value. If this is normal, the diodes may be defective. If
there is no secondary voltage, either the fuse is blown or the transformer is defective.
Second, ifthere is de load voltage, but it is lower than it should be, look
at the dc load voltage with an oscilloscope and measure the ripple. Apeak-to-peak
rip around 10percent of the ideal load voltage is reasonable. The ripple may be
Chapter 4
Figure -22 Troubleshooting.
09 zH
120 V
somewhat more or less than this, depending on the design. Furthermore, the ripple frequency should be 120 Hz for a full-wave or bridge rectifier. If the ripple is
60 Hz, one of the diodes may be open.
Common Troubles
Here are the most common troubles that arise in bridge rectifiers with capacitorinput filters:
1. If the fuse is open, there will be no voltages anywhere in the circuit.
2. If the filter capacitor is open, the dc load voltage will be low because the
output will be an unfiltered full-wave signal.
3. If one of the diodes is open, the de load voltage will be low because there
will be only half-wave rectification. Also, the ripple frequency will be 60 Hz
instead of 120 Hz. If all diodes are open, there will be no output.
4. If the load is shorted, the fuse will be blown. Possibly, one or more diodes
may be ruined or the transformer may be damaged.
5. Sometimes the filter capacitor becomes leaky with age, and this reduces the
de load voltage.
6. Occasionally, shorted windings in the transformer reduce the dc output voltage. In this case, the transformer often feels very warm to the touch.
7. Besides these troubles, you can have solder bridges, cold-solder joints, bad
connections, and so on.
Summary Table 4-4 lists these troubles and their symptoms.
Summary Table 4-4
Typical Troubles for Capacitor-Input Filtered
Bridge Rectifier
V V2 VL(dc) VR fripple Scope on Output
Fuse blown Zero Zero Zero Zero Lero No output
Capacitor open OK OK Low High 120 Hz Full-wave signal
One diode open OK OK Low High 60 Hz Half-wave ripple
Alldiodes open OK OK Zero Zero Zero No output
Load shorted Zero Zero Zero Zero Zero No oututput
Leaky capacitor OK OK Low High
120 Hz Low output
Shorted windings OK Low Low OK 120 Hz Low output
Diode Circuits 119
Example 4-11
When the circuit of Fig. 4-23 is working normally, it has an rms secondary voltage of 12.7 V, a load voltage of 18 V,andnd a
peak-to-peak ripple of 318 mV. If the filter capacitor is open, what happens to the de load voltage?
Figure 4-23
0.25 A
120 V
60 Hz
470 LF 1
SOLUTION With an open filter capacitor, the circuit reverts to a bridge rectifier with no filter capacitor. Because there
is no filtering, an oscilloscope across the load will display a full-wave signal with a peak value of 18 V. The average value
is 63.6 percent of 18 V, which is 11.4 V.
Example 4-12
Suppose the load resistor of Fig. 4-23 is shorted. Describe the symptoms.
SOLUTION Ashort across the load resistor will increase the current to a very high value. This will blow out the fuse.
Furthermore, itís possible that one or more diodes will be destroyed before the fuse blows. Often, when one diode shorts,
itwill cause the other rectifier diodes to also short. Because of the blown fuse, all voltages will measure zero.When you
check the fuse visually or with an ohmmeter, you will see that it is open.
With the power off,you should check the diodes with an ohmmeter to see whether any ofthem have been de
stroyed. You should also measure the load resistance with an ohmmeter. If it measures zero or very low, you have more
troubles to locate.
The trouble could be a solder bridge across the load resistor, incorrect wiring, or any number of possibilities.
Fuses do occasionally blow out without apermanent short across the load. But the point is this: When you get a blown
fuse, check the diodes for possible damage and the load resistance for a possible short.
A troubleshooting exercise at the end of the chapter has eight different troubles, including open diodes, filter capacitors, shorted loads, blown fuses, and open grounds.
120
4-10 Clippers and Limiters
The diodes used in low-frequency power supplies are rectifier diodes. These
diodes are optimized for use at 60 Hz and have power ratings greater than 0.5 W.
The typical rectifier diode has a forward current rating in amperes. Except for
power supplies, rectifier diodes have little use because most circuits inside electronics equipment are running at much higher frequencies.
Chapter 4
Diode Circuits
Figure 4-24 (a) Positive clipper; (b) output waveform.
Rs
+Vp
AA
-VP
RL
-Vp
Vout
(a)
0.7 V
-20 V
(b)
Small-Signal Diodes
In this section, we will be using small-signal diodes. These diodes are optimized
for use at high frequencies and have power ratings less than 0.5 W. The typical small-signal diode has a current rating in milliamperes. It is this smaller and
lighter construction that allows the diode to work at higher frequencies.
The Positive Clipper
A clipper is a circuit that removes either positive or negative parts of a waveform.
This kind of processing is useful for signal shaping, circuit protection, and communications. Figure 4-24a shows a positive clipper. The circuit removes all the
positive parts of the input signal. This is why the output signal has only negative half cycles..
Here is how the circuit works: During the positive half cycle, the diode
turns on and looks like a short across the output terminals. Ideally, the output voltage is zero. On the negative half cycle, the diode is open. In this case, a negative
half cycle appears across the output. By deliberate design, the series resistor is
much smaller than the load resistor. This is why the negative output peak is shown
as -V, in Fig. 4-24a.
To a second approximation, the diode voltage is 0.7 V when conducting.
Therefore, the clipping level is not zero, but 0.7 V. For instance, if the input signal
has a peak value of 20 V, the output of the clipper will look like Fig. 4-24b.
Defining Conditions
Small-signal diodes have a smaller junction area than rectifier diodes because
they are optimized to work at higher frequencies. As a result, they have more bulk
resistance. The data sheet of a small-signal diode like the 1N914 lists a forward
current of 10 mA at 1 V. Therefore, the bulk resistance is:
1 V-0.7 V
Rg = 30 Ω
10 mA
Why is bulk resistance important? Because the clipper will not work
properly unless the series resistance Rs is much greater than the bulk resistance.
Furthermore, the clipper won't work properly unless the series resistance Rs is
121
Figure 4-25 (a) Negative clipper; (b) output waveform.
Rs
+VP
-Vp
(a)
V(out)
20 V
-0.7 V
(b)
3
+Vp
AAA-O
GOOD TO KNOW
Negative diode clamps are often
used on the inputs of digital TTL
logic gates.
122
much smaller than the load resistance. For a clipper to work properly, we will use
this definition:
Stiff clipper: 100Rg < Rs < 0.01RL (4-17)
This says that the series resistance must be 100 times greater than the bulk resistance and 100 times smaller than the load resistance. When a clipper satisfies
these conditions, we call it a stiff clipper. For instance, if the diode has a bulk resistance of 30 , the series resistance should be at least 3 k2 and the load resistance should be at least 300 kN.
The Negative Clipper
If we reverse the polarity of the diode as shown in Fig. 4-25a, we get a negative
clipper. As you would expect, this removes the negative parts of the signal. Ideally, the output waveform has nothing but positive half cycles.
The clipping is not perfect. Because of the diode offset voltage (another
way of saying barrier potential), the clipping level is at -0.7 V. If the input signal has a peak of 20 V, the output signal will look like Fig. 4-25b.
The Limiter or Diode Clamp
The clipper is useful for waveshaping,but the same circuit can be used in a totally
different way. Take a look at Fig. 4-26a. The normal input to this circuit is a signal with a peak of only 15 mV. Therefore, the normal output is the same signal because neither diode is turned during the cycle.
What good is the circuit if the diodes don't turn on? Whenever you have
a sensitive circuit, one that cannot have too much input, you can use a positivenegative limiter to protect its input, as shown in Fig. 4-26b. If the input signal tries
to rise above 0,7 V, the output is limited to 0.7 V. On the other hand, if the input
signal tries to drop below -0.7 V, the output is limited to --0.7 V. In a circuit like
this, normal operation means that the input signal is always smaller than 0.7 V in
either polarity.
An example of a sensitive circuit is the op amp, an IC that will be discussed in later chapters. The typical input voltage to an op amp is less than 15 mV.
Voltages greater than 15 mV are unusual, and voltages greater than 0.7 V are abnormal.A limiter on the input side of an op amp will prevent excessive input voltage from being accidentally applied.
Chapter 4
Diode Circuits
Figure 4-26 (o) Diode clamp; (6) protecting a sensitive circuit.
15 mV peak
A
Rg
VIw
(a)
Rs
VinW
(b)
Vout
SENSITIVE
CIRCUIT
A more familiar example of a sensitive circuit is a moving-coil meter. Вy
including a limiter, we can protect the meter movement against excessive input
voltage or current.
The limiter of Fig. 4-26a is also called a dicde clamp. The term suggests
clamping or limiting the voltage to a specified range. With a diode clamp, the
diodes remain off during normal operation. The diodes conduct only when something is abnormal, when the signal is too large.
Biased Clippers
The reference level (same as the clipping level) of a positive clipper is ideally zero,
or 0.7 V to a second approximation. What can we do to change this reference level?
In electronics, bias means applying an external voltage to change the reference level of a circuit. Figure 4-27a is an example of using bias to change the
reference level of a positive clipper. By adding a de voltage source in series with
the diode, we can change the clipping level. The new V must be less than V, for
normal operation. With an ideal diode, conduction starts as soon as the input
Figure 4-27 (a) Biased positive clipper; (b) biased negative clipper.
+Vp
U
Rs
0
V
-Vp
V+0.7
-Vp
(a)
Rs
+Vp
-Vp
(b)
+VP
RL
V-0.7
123
Figure 4-28 Biased positive-negative clipper.
Rs
+Vp
•ДАА D AD V, + 0.7
T
RL 이 ΠΠΠ
V V
-V2-0.7
-Vp
Figure 4-29 (o) Clipper with three
offset voltages; (b) voltage divider biases
clipper; (c) diode clamp protects above
5.7 V; (d} diode D biases Di to remove
offset voltage.
1 ks2
Vin OWw
Rs
Vin ow
(a)
-O Yout
R
+Vdo Vois
(b)
2 k52
Vinww Vout
1N914
Vout
+5 V
(c)
1000 pF D
Vout
21 k52
+5 vow✓100 2
1双 D
voltage is greater than V. To a second approximation, it starts when the input voltage is greater than V+ 0.7 V.
Figure 4-27b shows how to bias a negative clipper. Notice that the diode
and battery have been reversed. Because of this, the reference level changes to
-V-0.7 V. The output waveform is negatively clipped at the bias level.
Combination Clipper
We can combine the two biased clippers as shown in Fig. 4-28. Diode Di
clips off positive parts above the positive bias level, and diode D2 clips off
parts below the negative bias level. When the input voltage is very large
compared to the bias levels, the output signal is a square wave, as shown in
Fig. 4-28. This is another example of the signal shaping that is possible with
clippers.
Variations
Using baiteries to set the clipping level is impractical. One approach is to add ore
silicon diodes because each produces a bias of 0.7 V. For instance, Fig. 4-29a
shows three diodes in a positive clipper. Since each diode has an offset of around
0.7 V, the three diodes produce a clipping level of approximately +2.1 V. The
application does not have to be a clipper (waveshaping). We can use the same circuit as a diode clamp (limiting) to protect a sensitive circuit that cannot tolerate
more thana 2.1-V input.
Figure 4-29b shows another way to bias a clipper without batteries. This
time, we are using a voltage divider (R₁ and R2) to set the bias level. The bias ievel
is given by:
R2 Vies Vde R+R2 (4-18)
In this case, the output voltage is clipped or limited when the input is greater than
Valas + 0.7 V.
Figure 4-29c, shows a biased diode clamp. It can be used to protect sensitive circuits from excessive input voltages. The bias level is shown as +5 V. It
can be any bias level you want it to be. With a circuit like this, a destructively
large voltáge of +100 V never reaches the load because the diode limits the output voltage to a maximum value of +5,7 V.
Sometimes a variation like Fig. 4-29d is used to remove the offset of the
limiting diode D₁. Here is the idea: Diode D₂ is biased slightly into forward conduction, so that it has approximately 0.7 V across it, This 0.7 V is applied to 1 kU
in series with D₁ and 100 k. This means that diode D is on the verge of conduction. Therefore, when a signal comes in, diode D₁ conducts near 0 V.
124
(d)
Chapter 4
GOOD TO KNOW
Clampers are commonly used in
analog television receivers for the
purpose of restoring the de
component of the video signal
prior to its being fed to the picture
tube.
4-11 Clampers
The diode clamp, which was discussed in ine preceding section, protects sensitive circuits. The clamper is different, so don't confuse the similar-sounding names. A
clamper adds a de voltage to the signal.
Positive Clamper
Figure 4-30a shows the basic idea for a positive clamper. When a positive clamper
has a sine-wave input, it adds a positive de voltage to the sine wave. Stated another
way, the positive clamper shifts the ac reference level (normally zero) up to a de
level. The effect is to have an ac voltage centered on a dc level. This means that each
point on the sine wave is shifted upward, as shown on the output wave.
Figure 4-30b shows an equivalent way of visualizing the effect of a positive clamper. An ac source drives the input side of the clamper. The Thevenin
voltage of the clamper output is the superposition of a de source and an ac source.
The ac signal has a de voltage of V, added to it. This is why the entire sine wave
of Fig. 4-30a has shifted upward so that it has a positive peak of 2V, and a negative peak of zero.
Figure 4-31a is a positive clamper. Ideally, here is how it works. The саpacitor is initially uncharged. On the first negative half cycle of input voltage, the
diode turns on (Fig. 4-31b). At the negative peak of the ac source, the capacitor
has fully charged and its voltage is V₂ with the polarity shown.
Slightly beyond the negative peak, the diode shuts off (Fig. 4-31c). The
R₁C time constant is deliberately made much larger than the period T of the signal. We will define much larger as at least 100 times greater:
Diode Circuits
Stiff clamper: RLC> 1007 (4-19)
For this reason, the capacitor remains almost fully charged during the off time of
the diode. To a first approximation, the capacitor acts like a battery of V₂ volts.
This is why the output voltage in Fig. 4-31a is a positively clamped signal. Any
clamper that satisfies Eq. (4-19) is called a stiff clamper.
Figure 4-30 (a) Positive clamper shifts waveform upward; (6) positive clamper adds a
de component to signal.
+Vp
-Vp
POSITIVE
CLAMPER
(a)
+2VP
VP POSITIVE Vp CLAMPER
Vp
(b)
125
Figure 4-31 (0) Ideal positive clamper; (b) at the positive peak; (c) beyond the positive peak; (d) clamper is not quite perfect.
126
+2 Vp
本 RL +Vp Vp
0
+Vp
이
-Vp (a)
C
+Vp
CVP 이
RL
-Vp
{c) (d)
I
=2Vp
Vp
RL
(b)
R
0-
-0.7 V
The idea is similar to the way a half-wave rectifier with a capacitor-input
filter works. The first quarter cycle charges the capacitor fully. Then, the capacitor
retains almost all of its charge during subsequent cycles. The small charge that is
lost between cycles is replaced by diode conduction.
In Fig. 4-31c, the charged capacitor looks like a battery with a voltage of
V₂. This is the dc voltage that is being added to the signal. After the first quarter
cycle, the output voltage is a positively clamped sine wave with a reference level
of zero; that is, it sits on a level of 0 V.
Figure 4-31d shows the circuit as it is usually drawn. Since the diode
drops 0.7 V when conducting, the capacitor voltage does not quite reach V₂. For
this reason, the clamping is not perfect, and the negative peaks have a reference
level of -0.7 V.
Negative Clamper
What happens if we turn the diode in Fig. 4-31d around? We get the negative
clamper of Fig. 4-32. As you can see, the capacitor voltage reverses, and the circuit becomes a negative clamper. Again, the clamping is less than perfect because
the positive peaks have a reference level of 0.7 V instead of 0 V.
As a memory aid, notice that the diode points in the direction of shift. In
Fig. 4-32, the diode points downward, the same direction as the shift of the sine
wave. This tells you that it's'a negative clamper. In Fig. 4-31a, the diode points up,
the waveform shifts up, and you have positive clamper.
Figure 4-32 Negative clamiper.
+Vp
-Vp
RL
+0.7 V
AAA
-2Vp
Chapter 4
Figure 4-33 Peak-to-peak detector.
+2 Vp
Diode Circuits
+Vp
-V
C
Vp
2VPC RL
0
+2Vp
wwW
Both positive and negative clampers are widely used. For instance, television receivers use a clamper to change the reference level of video signals.
Clampers are also used in radar and communication circuits.
A final point. The less than perfect clipping and clamping discussed so
far are no problem. After we discuss op amps, we will look again at clippers and
clampers. At that time, you will see how easy it is to eliminate the barrier-potential
problem. In other words, we willlook at circuits that are almost perfect.
Peak-to-Peak Detector
Ahalf-wave rectifier with a capacitor-input filter produces a de output voltage approximately equal to the peak of the input signal. When the same circuit uses a
small-signal diode, it is called apeak detector. Typically, peak detectors operate
at frequencies that are much higher than 60 Hz. The output of a peak detector is
useful in measurements, signał processing, and communications.
If you cascade a clamper and a peak detector, you get a peak-to-peak
detector (see Fig. 4-33). As you can see, the output of a clamper is used as the
input to a peak detector. Since the sine wave is positively clamped, the input to the
peak detector has a peak value of 2Vp. This is why the output of the peak detector
is a de voltage equal to 2Vp.
As usual, the RCtime constnt must be much greater than the period of
the signal. By satisfying this condition, you get good clamping action and good
peak detection. The output ripple will therefore be small.
One application is in measuring nonsinusoidal signals. An ordinary ac
voltmeter is calibrated to read the rms value of an ac signal. If you try to measure
a nonsinusoidal signal, you will get an incorrect reading with an ordinary ac voltmeter. However, if the output of a peak-to-peak detector is used as the input to a
de voltmeter, it will indicate the peak-to-peak voltage. If the nonsinusoidal signal
swings from-20 to + 50 V, the reading is 70 V.
4-12 Voltage Multipliers
Apeak-to-peak detector uses small-signal diodes and operates at high frequencies. By using rectifier diodes and operating at 60 Hz, we can produce
a new kind
of power supply called a voltage doubler.
127
128
Figure 4-34 Voltage multipliers with floating loads. (a) Doubler; (b) tripler; (c) quadrupler.
C1 D2
120 V
+2Vp
w
60 Hz
D RL
(a)
IRIPLER OUTPUT.
Vd 2 Vp
120 V
17- +
60 Hz
Vp
120 V
60 Hz
-) 平
وا
(9)
D
し2
2 Vp
D
2 Vp
C3
D2 盘 Dg
2
2 Vp
本
+
2 Vp
+
C3
D2
Dg
C4
QUADRUPLER OUTPUT
(0)
의녀
2 Vp
D
Voltage Doubler
Figure 4-34a is a voltage doubler. The configuration is the same as a peak-to-peak
detector, except that we use rectifier diodes and operate at 60 Hz. The clamper
section adds a de component to the secondary voltage. The peak detector then produces a de output voltage that is 2 times the secondary voltage.
Whybother using a voltage doubler when you can change the turns ratio
to get more output voltage? The answer is that you don't need to use a voltage
doubler at lower voltages. The only time you run into a problem is when you are
trying to produce very high de output voltages.
For instance, line voltage is 120 Vrms, or 170 V peak. If you are trying
to produce 3400 V dc, you will need to.use a 1:20 step-up transformer. Here is
where the problem comes in. Very high secondary voltages can be obtained only
with bulky transformers. At some point, a designer may decide that it would be
simpler to use a voltage doubler and asmaller transformer.
Chapter 4
Diode Circu rcits
Voltage Tripler
By connecting another section, we get the voltage tripler of Fig. 4-3 4-34b. The first
two sections act like a doubler. At the peak of the negative half суcle, D3 is
forward-biased. This charges Cz to 2Vp,with the polarity shown in Fig. 4-34 34b. The
tripler output appears across Ci and C3. The load resistance can be conned hnected
across the tripler output. As long as the time constant is long, the output ecquals
approximately 3Vp.
Voltage Quadrupler
Figure 4-34c is a voltage quadrupler with four sections in cascade (one after an
other). The first three sections are a tripler, and the fourth makes the overall circucuit
a quadrupler. The first capacitor charges to Vp. All others charge to 2V. The
quadrupler output is across the series connection of C2 and C4. We can connect a
load resistance across the quadrupler output to get an output of4Vp. Theoretically, we can add sections indefinitely, but the ripple gets much
worse with each new section. Increased'ripple is another reason why voltage
multipliers (doublers, triplers, and quadruplers) are not used in low-voltage
power supplies. As stated éarlier, voltage multipliers are almost always used to
produce high voltages, well into the hundreds or thousands of volts. Voltage
multipliers are the natural choice for high-voltage and low-current devices like
the cathode-ray tube (CRT) used in television receivers, oscilloscopes, and computer monitors.
Variations
All of the voltage multipliers shown in Fig. 4-34 use load resistances that are
floating. This means that neither end of the load is grounded. Figure 4-35a, b, and
c shows variations of the veltage multipliers. Figure 4-35a merely adds grounds
to Fig. 4-34a. On ihe other hand, Fig. 4-35b and c are redesigns of the tripler
(Fig. 4-34b) and quadrupler (Fig. 4-34c). In some applications, you may see foating-load designs used (such as in the CRT); in others, you may see
grounded-load designs used.
the
Full-Wave Voltage Doubler
Figure 4-35d shows a full-wave voltage doubler. On the positive half alf cycle of the
source, the uppercapacitor charges to the peakvoltage with the polari arity shown. On
the next half cycle, the lower capacitor charges to the peak voltage with the indicated polarity. For a light load, the final output voltage is approximately 2Vp.
The voltage multipliers discussed earlier are half-wave designs; that is,
the output ripple frequency is 60 Hz. On the other hand, the circuit of Fig. 4-35d
is called a full-wave voltage doublerbecause one of the output capacitors is being
charged during each half cycle. Because of this, the output ripple is 120 Hz. This
ripple frequency is an advantage because it is easier to filter. Another advantage oof
the full-wave doubler is that the PIV rating of the diodes need only be greate
than Vp.
129
Figure 4-35 Voltage multipliers with grounded loads, except full-wave doubler.
(a) Doubler; (6) tripler; (c) quadrupler; (d) Fuil-wave doubler.
수
Vp
Vp
Vp
(a)
2Vp
(9)
פ)
)d)
3Vp
D2
+.
D
Dz
2Vp
3Vp
2Vp
4Vp
dA وناست
갱
2Vp
Summary
SEC. 4-1 THE HALF-WAVE
RECTIFIER
The half-wave rectifier has a diode in
series with a load resistor. The load voltage
is a T-wave ou The average or de
voltage out of a half-wave rectifier equals
31.8 percent of the peak voltage.
SEC. 4-2 THE TRANSFORMER
The input transformer is usually a
step-down transformer in which the
voltage steps down and the cucurrent
steps up. The secondary voltage equ
the primary voltage divided by the
turns ratio.
130
Chapter 4
SEC. 4-3 THE FULL-L-WAVE
RECTIFIER
The full-wave rectifier ifier has acenter
tapped transformer with two diodes and a
load resistor. The load pad voltage is a full
wave signal whose ppeak value is half the
secondary voltage. The average or de
voltage out of afull-ll-wave rectifier equals
63.6 percent of the peak voltage, and the
ripple frequency equa quals 120 Hz instead of
60Hz.
SEC. 4-4 THE BRIDGE RECTIFIER
The bridge rectifier has four diodes. The
load voltage is a full-wave signal with a
peak value equal to the secondary
voltage. The average or de voltage out of
a half-wave rectifier equals 63.6 percent
of the peak voltage, and the ripple
frequend ency equals 120 Hz.
SEC. 4-5 THE CHOKE-INPUT
FILTER
The choke-input filter is an LCvoltage
divider in which the inductive reactance
is much greater than the capacitive
reactance. The type of filter allows the
average value of the rectified signal to
pass through to the load resistor.
SEC. 4-6 THE CAPACITOR-INPUT
FILTER
This type of filter allows the peak value of
the rectified signal to pass through to the
load resistor. With a large capacitor, the
ripple is small, typically less than 10 percent of the dc voltage. The capacitorinput filter is the most widely used filter
in power supplies.
SEC. 4-7 PEAK INVERSE VOLTAGE
AND SURGE CURRENT
The peak inverse voltage is the maximum
voltage that appears across the.
nonconducting diode of a rectifier circuit.
This voltage must be less than the
breakdown.voltage of the diode. The surge
current is the brief and large current that
exists when the power is first turned on.
It is brief and large because the filter
capacitor must charge to thepeak voltage
during the first cycle or, at most, during
the first few cycles.
SEC. 4-8 OTHER POWER-SUPPLY
TOPICS
Real transformers usually specify the
secondary voltage at a rated loaр
current. To calculate the primary current,
you can assume that the input power
equals the output power. Slow-blow
fuses are typically used to protect
against the surge current. The average
diode current in a half-wave rectifier
equals the de load current. In a full-wave
or bridge rectifier, the average current in
any diode is half the dc load current. LC
filters and LCfilters may occasionally be
used to filter the rectified output.
SEC. 4-9 TROUBLESHOOTING
Some of the measurements that can be
made with a capacitor-input filter are the
de output voltage, the primary voltage,
the secondary voltage, and the ripple.
From these, you can usually deduce the
trouble. Open diodes reduce the output
voltage to zero. An open filter capacitor
reduces the output to the average value
of the rectified signal.
SEC. 4-10 CLIPPERS AND
LIMITERS
A clipper shapes the signal. It clips off
positive or negative parts of the sig signal.
The limiter or diode clamp protects
sensitive circuits from too much input.
SEC. 4-11 CLAMPERS
The clamper shifts a signal positively or
negatively by adding ade voltage to the
signal. The peak-to-peak detector
produces a load voltage equal to the
peak-to-peak value.
SEC. 4-12 VOLTAGE MULTIPLIERS
The voltage doubler is a redesign of the
peak-to-peak detector. It uses rectifier
diodes instead ofsmall-signal diodes. It
produces an output equal to 2 times the
peak value of the rectified signal. Voltage
triplers and quadruplers multiply the
input peak by factors of 3 and 4. Very
high voltage power supplies are the main
use of voltage multipliers.
Definitions
(4-14) Turns ratio: (4-19). Stiff clamper:
N:N2
4
A
N V
3 V2 N2V2
(4-17) Stiff clipper:
Rs
Rg RL 100RB<Rs <0.01RL
Diode Circuits
RL
RLC> 1007
131
Derivations
(4-1) Ideal half-wave:
IDEAL
Vp(in)
A
(4-2) Half-wave:
Vp
Af Vdc
(4-3) Half-wave:
VPlout)
UU
fin
AA
Yout
VV
PA
(4-4)
Vp(in)
A
2d half-wave:
2D APPROXIMATION
VPlout)
VU
(4-5) Ideal transformer:
N:N2
V
2N/N
队
(4-8) 2d bridge:
Vplin
Vpjout)
Vplout dout) =Vplin)
AA
Vpout) plin) -1.4 V
(4-9) Choke-input filter:
X
Ve Vout
TT. Xc
Vin~) XC VoutVin
y
(4-10) Peak-to-peak ripple:
fout Tin RECTIFIER
(4-11) Half-wave:
Vplout) PIV
Vpin) -0.7V
VP
위
(4-12)
Full-wave:
PIV
VP
(4-6) Full-wave:
Vp
(4-13)
Vp
SHORT
Bridge:
(4-7)
fin
Full-wave:
Vdc=
2V
A
132
fout
a
fout2fin
1
Vp PIV= 2Vp.
PIV = V
SHORT
PIV = Vp
PIV
(4-15)
Нalf-wave:
Idiode
diode ldc
VRfC
Chapter 4
(4-16) Full-wave and bridge:
REST
OF
diode
CIRCUIT
(4-18) Biased clipper:
Rs
Vin Vout
Idc
R
+Vicw +Vbias
R2 VoiasVae
Ri+ Rd
R2
diode 0.5/dc
Student Assignments
1. If N1/N2 = 4, and the primary
voltage is 120 V, what is the
6. The voltage out of a bridge
rectifier is a
secondary voltage?
a. OV
b. 30 V
c. 60 V
d. 480 V
2. In a step-down transformer, which
is larger?
a. Primary voltage
b. Secondary voltage
c. Neither
d. No answer possible
3. A transformer has a turns ratio of
2:1.What is the peak secondary voltage if 115 Vrms is applied to
the primary winding?
a. 57.5 V
b. 81.3 V
c. 230 V
d. 325 V
4.
With a half-wave rectified voltage
across the load resistor, load
current flows for what part of a
cycle?
a. 0°
b. 90°
c. 180°
d. 360°
5. Suppose line voltage may be as
low as 105 Vrms or as high as
125 rms in a half-wave rectifier.
With a 5:1 step-down
transformer, the minimum peak
load voltage is closest to
a. 21 V
b. 25 V
c. 29.7 V
d. 35.4 V
Diode Circuits
7.
a. Half-wave signal
b. Full-wave signal
c. Bridge-rectified signaí
d. Sine wave
If the line voltage is 115 V rms, a
turns ratio of 5:1 means the rms
secondary voltage is closest to
a. 15 V
b. 23 V
c. 30 V
d. 35 V
8. What is the peak load voltage in a
full-wave rectifier ifthe secondary
voltage is 20 V rms?
9.
a. OV
b. 0.7 V
c. 14.1.V
d. 28.3 V
Wewant a peak load voltage of
40 Vout of a bridge rectifier.
What is the approximate rms
value of secondary voltage?
a. OV
b. 14.4 V
c. 28.3 V
d. 56.6 V
10. With a full-wave rectified voltage
across the load resistor, load
current flows for what part of a
cycle?
a. 0°
b. 90°
c. 180°
d. 360°
11. What is the peak load voltage out
of a bridge rectifier for a
secondary voltage of 12.6 Vrms?
(Use second approximation.)
12.
a. 7.5 V
b. 16.4 V
c.. 17.8 V
d. 19.2 V
If line frequeney is 60 Hz, the
output frequency of a half-wave
rectifier is
a. 30 Hz
b. 60 Hz
c. 120 HZ
d. 240 Hz
13. If line frequency is 60 Hz, the
output frequency of a bridge
rectifier is
a. 30 Hz
6. 60 Hz
c. 120 Hz
d. 240 HZ
14. With the same secondary voltage
and filter, which has the most
15.
ripple?
a. Half-wave rectifier
b. Full-wave rectifier
C. Bridge rectifier
d. Impossible to say
With the same secondary voltage
and filter, which produces the
least load voltage?
a.: Half-wave rectifier
b. Full-wave rectifier
c. Bridge rectifier
d. Impossible to say
133
16. If the filtered load current is 10
mẠ, which of the following has a
diode current of 10 mA?
a. Half-wave rectifier
b. Full-wave rectifier
c. Bridge rectifier
d. Impossible to say
17. If the load current is 5 mA and
the filter capacitance is 1000 µF,
what is the peak-to-peak ripple
out of abridge rectifier?
a. 21.3 pV
b. 56.3 nV
c. 21.3 m
d. 41.7 mV
18. The diodes in a bridge rectifier
each have a maximum de current
rating of 2 A. This means the de
load current can have a maximum
value of
a. 1 A
b. 2 A
c. 4 A
d. 8 A
19.What is the PIV across each diode
of a bridge rectifier with
secondary voltage of 20 Vrms?
a. 14.1 V
b. 20 V
c. 28.3 V.
d. 34 V
Problems
23. A circuit that adds a positive or
negative de voltage to an input
sine-wave is called a
20. If the secondary voltage increases
in a bridge rectifier with a
capacitor-input filter, the load
a. Clamper
SEC. 4-1 THE HALF-WAVE RECTIFIER
4-1
voltage will
a. Decrease
b. Stay the same
c. Increase
d. None of these.
21. If the filter capacitance is
increased, the ripple will
a. Decrease
b. Stay the same
e. Increase
d. None of these
22. A circuit that removes positive or
negative parts of a waveform is
called a
a. Clamper
b. Clipper
c. Diode clamp
d. Limiter
MultiSi What is the peak output voltage in
Fig. 4-360 if the diode is ideal? The average value? The de
value? Sketch the output waveform.
b. Clipper
c. Diode clamp
d. Limiter
24. For a clamper circuit to operate
properly, its R₂C time constant
25.
should be
a. Equal to the period T of the signal
b. > 10 times the period Tof the
signal
c. >100 times the period T of the
signal
d. < 10 times the period T of the
signal
Voltage multipliers are circuits
best used to producе
a. Low voltage and low current
b. Low voltage and high current
c. High voltage and low current
d. High voltage and high current
134
Figure 4-36
50 V
60 Hz
15 V
60 Hz
(a)
(q)
4.7.kQ
4-2
4-3
4-4
|III MultiSl Repeat the preceding problem for
Fig. 4-36b.
lI MultSim What is the peak output voltage in
Fig. 4-360 using the second approximation of a diode?
The average value? The de vaiue? Sketch the output
waveform.
|lil MaittSi Repeat the preceding problem for
Fig. 4-36b.
SEC. 4-2 THE TRANSFORMER
4-5 If a transformer has a turns ratio of 6: 1, what is the rms
secondary voltage? The peak secondary voltage? Assume
a primary voltage of 120.V.rms
4-6 If a transformer has a turns ratio of 1:12, what is the rms
secondary voltage? The peak secondary voltage? Assume
a primary voltage 120 Vrms.
ΚΩ
4-7 Calculate the peak output voltage and the de output
voltage in Fig. 4-37 using an ideal diode.
48 Calculate thepeak output voltage and the de output
voltage in Fig. 4-37 using the second approximation.
Chapter 4
Figure 4-37
8:1
120 V.
60 Hz
V V2 2
RL
680 2
SEC. 4-5 THE CHOKE-INPUT FILTER
4-15 A half-wave signal with a peak of 20 V is the input to a
choke-input filter. If X= 1 k and Xc 25 2, what is
the approximate peak-to-peak ripple across the capacitor?
4-16 A full-wave signal with a peak of 14 V is the input to a
choke-input filter. If X₁= 2 k and Xc= 502, what is
the approximate peak-to-peak ripple across the
capacitor?
SEC. 4-3 THE FULL-WAVE RECTIFIER
4-9 A center-tapped transfor with 120 Vinput has a turns
ratio of 4: 1.WWhat is the rmsns voltage across the upper half
of the secondary r winding? The peaeakvoltage? What is the
rms voltage across the lower half of the secondary winding?
4-10ltisim What is the peak output voltage in
Fig. 4-38 if the diodes are ideal? The average value? The
de value? Sketch the output waveform.
4-11lisim Repeat the preceding problem using the
second approximation.
Figure 4-38
7:1
120 V
60 Hz
D
SRL
3.3 ΚΩ
SEC. 4-4 THE BRIDGE RECTIFIER
D2
-12 S In Fig. 4-39, what is the peak output
voltage if the diodes are ideal? The average value? The de
value? Sketch the output waveform.
4-13Ma nitiSie Repeat the preceding probl oblem using the
second approximation.
4-14 If the line voltage in Fig. 4-39 varies from 1050 to
125 Vrms, what is the minimumum pc output voitaitage?
SEC. 4-6 THE CAPACITOR-INPUT FILTER
4-17 What is the de output voltage and ripple in-Fig. 4-40a?
Sketch the output waveform.
4-18 In Fig. 4-40b, calculate the de output voltage and ripple.
4-19 What happens to the ripple in Fig. 4-40a if the
capacitance value is reduced to half?
4-20 In Fig. 4-406, what happens to the ripple if the resistance
is reduced to 500 2?
4-21 What is the de output voltage in Fig. 4-41? The ripple?
Sketch the outputwaveform.
4-22 ii tne line voltage decreases to 105 V in Fig. 4-41, what is
the de output voltage?
SEC. 4-7 PEAK INVERSE VOLTAGE
AND SURGE CURRENT
4-23 What is the peak inverse voltage in Fig. 4-41?
4-24 If the turns ratio changes to 3: 1 in Fig. 4-41, what is the
peak inverse voltage?
SEC. 4-8 OTHER POWER-SUPPLY TOPICS
4-25. AnF-25X replaces the transformer of Fig. 4-41.What is the
approximate peak voltage across the secondary winding?
The approximate de output voltage? Is the transformer
being operated at its rated output current? Will the de
output voltage be higher onlower than normal?
4-26 What is the primary current in Fig. 4-41?
4-27 What is the average current through each diode in
Fig. 4-400 and 4-406?
4-28 What is the average current through each diode of
Fig. 4-41?
The maximum?
Figure 4-39
Diode Circuits
8:1
120 V
60 Hz
场ー
470
135
Figure 4-40
Figure 4-41.
09 ZH
120 V
1N4001 8:1
V2
47 F
10 2
(a)
7:1
120 V
09 ZH
120 V
60 Hz
LA
9:1
(9)
68 /7F
470 µF
k52
2.2 ΚΩ
SEC. 4-9 TROUBLESHOOTING
4-29: If the filter capacitor in Fig. 4-41 is open, what is the de
output voltage?
4-30 If only one diode in Fig: 4-41 is open, what is the de
output völtage?
4-31. If somebody builds the circuit of Fig. 4-41 with the
eiectrolytic capacitor reversed, what kind aftrouble is
likely to happen?
4-32 If the load resistance of Fig. 4-41 opens, what changes
will.occur in the output voltage?
SEC. 4-10 CUPPERS AND LIMITERS
4-33 In Fig. 4-42a, sketch the output waveform. What is the
maximum positive voltage? The maximum negative?
4-34 Repeat the preceding problem for Fig. 4-42b.
e
136
4-35 The diode clamp of Fig. 4-42c 4-4protects protects the sensitive
circuit. What are the limiting.levels?
4-36 In Fig. 4-42d, what is maximum positive output voltage?
Maximum negative output voltage? Sketch the output
waveform.
4-37 If the sine wave of Fig. 4-42d.is only 20 mV, the circuit
will act as a diode clamp instead of a biased clipper. In
this case, what is the protected range of output voltage?
SEC. 4-11 CLAMPERS
4-38 In Fig. 4-430, sketch the output waveform. What is the
maximum positive voltage? The maximum negative?
4-39 Repeat the preceding problem forFig. 4-436.
4-40 Sketch the output waveform of the clamper and
final output in Fig. 4-43c. What is the de output
voltage with ideal diodes? To a second
approximation?
Chapte pter 4
Figure 4-42
50 V
24 V
AA
Sy
1 k2
Vin
20 V
AAA
Sy
(b)
(c)
두
(a)
AL
Figure 4-43
개
Ty
15 V
AA
AL
SENSITIVE
CIRCUIT
1 k요
Vout
6.8 k
+15 V
1kg
SEC. 4-12 VOLTAGE MULTIPLIER
4-41 Caiculate C the dc output volt oltage in Fig. 4-4440.
4-42 What is the tripler output in Fig. 4-446?
4-43 What is the quadrupler output in Fig. 4-44c?
Critical Thinking
20 V
AA
30 V
(a)
(9)
AA
本
4-44 If one of the diodes in Fig. 4-41 shorts, what will the
probable result be?
4-45 The power supply of Fig. 4-45 has two output voltages.
look up the value of a sine wave at intervals of 1°.
Describe how you could prove that the average value of a:
full-wave signal is 63.6 percent of the peak value.
What are their approximate values?
4-46 A surge resistor of 4.7n is added to Fig. 4-45.What is
the maximum possible value of surge currènt?
4-48 For the switch position shown in Fig. 4-46, what is the
output voltage? If the switch is thrown to the other
position, what is the output voltage?
4-47 A full-wave voltage has a peak value of 15 V. Somebody
hands you a book of trigonometry tables, so that you can
4-49 If Vin is 40 V rms in Fig. 4-47 and the time constant RC is
very large compared to the period of the source voltage,
what does Vout equal? Why?
Diode Circuits 137
>7
Figure 4-44
Figure 4-45
138
C D2
1:10.
120 V
90 Hz
120 V
09 래H
1:7
8:1
(a)
D 2
TRIPLER OUTPUT
1:5
G
D
(9)
C2
D D2
Cz
円
2
RL 2Vp
C3
D2 D3
C3
D3
QUADRUPLER OUTPUT
(0)
DA
C4
♡200
C 220052
Chapter 4
Figure 4-46
120 V
60 Hz
8:1
Troubleshooting
PL
Figure 4-47
Vin
C
R tno
4-50 Figure 4-48 shows a bridge rectifier circuit with normal circuit values and eight troubles-T1-T8. Find all eight troubles.
Figure 4-48 Troubleshooting
F
Diode Circuits
2A
G
RL
470 LIF
>1 ΚΩ
TRO U E
ok 115 12.7 18 0.3 120. 1k ok ok
11 115 12.7. 11.4 18 120.
T2 115. 12.7. -17.7
T3
이 0
T4 115 12.7
51 :0
T6 115 12.7 18
T7 115
0
T8
0
0 0
0 0
0 0 0
0
0 0 0
9.0 09
1k OK OK
ok
0 1k ok ok
1k ok
ok
1k ok Ok
A
139
Job Interview Questions
1. Here's a pencil and paper. Tell me how a bridge rectifier with
a capacitor-input filter works. In your explanation, I expect
to see a schematic diagram and waveforms at different
points in the circuit.
2. Suppose there's a bridge rectifier with a capacitor-input
filter on my lab bench. It's not working. Tell me how you
would t ubleshoot it. Indicate the kind of instruments.
you woulu use and how you would isolate common
troubles.
3. Excessive current or voltage can destroy the diodes in a
power supply. Draw a bridge rectifier with a capacitorinput filter and tell me how current or voltage can
destroy a diode. Do the same for excessive reverse
voltage.
4. Tell me everything you know about clippers, clampers, and
diode clamps. Show me typical waveforms,.clipping levels,
clamping levels, and protection levels.
5. I want you to tell me how a peak-to-peak detector works.
Then, I want you to tell me in what ways a voltage doubler
is símilar to a peak-to-peak detector and in what ways it.
differs from a peak-to-peak detector.
7. In what power-supply application might I prefer to use an
LC-type filter instead of the RC-type? Why?
8. What is the relatjonship between a half-wave rectifier and a
full-wave rectifier?
9. Under what circumstances is it appropriate to use a voltage
'multiplier as part of a power supply?
10. A dc power supply is supposed to have an output of
5 V. You measure exactly 5 V out of this supply using
a de voltmeter. Is it possible for the power supply to
still have aproblem? If so, how would you
troubleshoot it?
11. Whywould I use a voltage multiplier instead of a
transformer with a higher turns ratio and an ordinary
rectifier?
12. List the advantages and disadvantages of the RCfilter and
LCfilter.
13. While troubleshooting a power supply, you find a
6. What is the advantage of using a bridge rectifier in a power
supply as opposed to using a half-wave or a full-wave
rectifier? Why is the bridge rectifier more efficient than the
14.
others?
resistor burned black. A measurement shows that the.
resistor is open. Shouid you replace the resistor and
turn the supply back on? Ifnot, what should you
do next?
For abridge rectifier, list three possible faults and what the
symptoms of each would be.
Self-Test Answers
1. b
10. d 19. с
2. a 11. b
20. C
3. b
12.
b
21. a
4. c
13. 22. b
5. c
14. a 23. a
6. b
15. b 24. C
7. b
16. 3 25. c
8. c 17.
9. C 18. C
140 Chapter 4
Practice Problem Answers
4-1 Vdc= 6.53 V
4-2 Vdc=27 V
4-3 Vplin) = 12 V;
Vplout11.3 V
4-5 Vptout) ideal =34 V; 2hd32.6 V
4-7 V 17 V;
VR = 0.71 Vpp
4-9 VR= R 0.165 Vpp
4-10 1N24002 or 1N4003 for safety
facto tor of 2
Diode Circuits 141
chapter 5 Special-Purpose
Diodes
Rectifier diodes are the most common type of diode. They are used in
power supplies to convert ac voltage to de voltage. But rectification is
not all that a diode can do. Now we will discuss diodes used in other
applications. The chapter begins with the zener diode, which is
optimized for its breakdown properties. Zener diodes are very
important because they are the key to voltage regulation. The chapter
also covers optoelectronic diodes, Schottky diodes, varactors, and
other diodes.
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be
able to:
Show how the zener diode is used
and calculate various values related
to its operation.
List several optoelectronic devices
and describe how each works.
Recall two ádvantages Schottky
diodes have ovèr common diodes.
Explain how a varactor works.
State a primary use of the varistor.
List four items of interest to the
technician found on a zener diode
List and describe the basic
function of other semiconductor
diodes.
Chapter Outline
5-1 The Zener Diode
5-2 The Loaded Zener
Regulator
5-3 Second Approximation of a
Zener Diode
data sheet.
5-4 Zener Drop-Out Point
5-5 Reading a Data Sheet
5-6 Troubleshooting
57 Load Lines
5-8 Optoelectronic Devices
5-9 The Schottky Diode
5-10 The Varactor
5-11 Other Diodes
Vocabulary
back diode
common-anode
common-cathode
current-regulator diode
derating factor
laser diode
lęakage region
lig
diode (LED)
negative resistance
optocoupler
optoelectronics
photodiode
PIN diode
preregulator
Schottky diode
seven-segment display
step-recovery diode
temperature coefficient
tunnel diode
varactor
varistor
zener diode
zener effect
zener regulator
zener resistatance
143
GOOD TO KNOW
As with conventional diodes, the
manufacturer places a band on the
cathode end of the zener diode for
terminal identification.
5-1 The Zener Diode
Small-signal and rectifier diodes are never intentionally operated inthebreakdown
region because this may damage them. A zener diode is different; it is a silicon
diode that the manufacturer has optimized for operation in the breakdown region.
The zener diode is the backbone of voltage regulators, circuits that hold the load
voltage almost constant despite large changes in line voltage and load resistance.
I-V Graph
Figure 5-1a shows the schematic symbol of à zener diode; Fig. 5-1b is an alternative symbol. In either symbol, the lines resemble az,which stands for "zener." By
varying the doping level of silicon diodes, a manufacturer can produce zener
diodes with breakdown voltages from about 2 to over 1000 V. Thesè diodes can
operate in any of three regions: forward, leakage, and breakdown.
Figure 5-1c shows the I-Vgraph of a zener diode. In the forward region,
it starts conducting around 0.7 V, just like an ordinary silicon diode. In the leakage region (between zere and breakdown), it has only a small reverse current. In
a zener diode, the breakdown has a very sharp knee, followed by an almost verti-:
cal increase in current. Note that the voltage is almost constant, approximately
equal to Vz over most of the breakdown region. Data sheets usually specify the
value of Vz at a particular test current Izr.
Figure 5-1c also shows the maximum reverse current IzM. As long as the
reverse current is less than Izm, the diode is operating within its safe range. If the
current is greater than Izm, the diode will be destroyed. To prevent excessive
reverse current, a current-limiting resistor must be used (discussed later).
Zener Resistance
In the third approximation of a silicon diode, the forward voltage across a diode
equals the knee voltage plus the additional voltage across the bulk resistance.
Figure 5-1 Zener diode. (o) Schematic symbol; (b) alternative symbol; (c) graph ofcurrent versus voltage; (d) typical zener diodes.
(a) (b):
A
(2)
-IZT
-IzM
144
DO-35 Glass case DO-41 Glass case
COLOR BAND DENOTES CATHODE COLOR BAND DENOTES CATHODE
)d)
SOD-123
Bria Brian Moeskau/Brian Moeskau Photography Brian Moeskau/Brian MoeskauPhotographyBrian Moeskau/Brian Moeskau Photography
Chapter 5
Similarly, in the breakdown region, the reverse voltage across adiode
equals the breakdown voltage plus the additional voltage across oss the bulk resistance. In the reverse region, the bulk resistance is referred to as the zener resistance. This resistance equals the inverse of the slope in the breakdown region.
In other words, the more vertical the breakdown region, the smaller the zener
resistance.
In Fig. 5-1c, the zener resistance means that an increase in reverse current produces a slight increase in reverse voltage. The increase in voltage is very
small, typically only a few tenths of a volt. This slight increase may be important
in design work, but not in troubleshooting and preliminary analysis,) Unless
otherwise indicated, our discussions will ignore the zener resistance. Fig. 5-1(d)
shows typical zener diodes.
Zener Regulator
Azener diode is sometimes called a voltage-regulator diode because it maintains
a constant output voltage even though the current through it changes. For normal
operation, you have to reverse bias the zener diode, as shown in Fig. 5-2a. Furthermore, to get breakdown operation, the source voltage Vsmust be greater than
the zener breakdown voltage Vz. A series resistor Rs is always used to limit the
zener current to less than its maximum current rating. Otherwise, the zener diode
will burn out like any device with too much power dissipation.
Figure 5-2b shows an alternative way to draw the circuit with grounds.
Whenever a circuit has grounds, you can measure voltages with respect to ground.
For instance, suppose you want to know the voltage across the series
resistor of Fig. 5-2b. Here is the one way to find it when you have a built-up circuit. First, measure the voltage from the left end ofRs to ground. Second, measure
the voltage from the right end of Rs to ground. Third, subtract the two voltages to
get the voltage across Rs. If you have a floating VOM or DMM, you can connect
directly across the series resistor.
Figure 5-2c shows the output of a power supply connected to a séries
resistor and a zener diode. This circuit is used when you want a de output voltage
that is less than the output of the power supply. A circuit like this is called a zener
voltage regulator, or simply a zener regulator.
Ohm's Law Again
In Fig. 5-2, the voltage across the series or current-limiting resistor equals the difference between the source voltage and the zener voltage. Therefore, the current
through the resistor is
Vs- Vz Is=Rs
Figure 5-5-2 Zenerrregulator. (a) Basic circuit; (b) (b)ssame circuit with grounds; (c) powerzer supply drives regulator.
BRIDGE Vs Rs Vz Rs
REЕCTIFIER
WITH
САPACITOR- VS VZ
-T
INPUT
FILTER
(a)
Special-Purpose Diodes
(9)
V2
(5-1)
145
Figure 5-3 Ideal approximation of a
zener diode.
A
Once youhave the value of series current, you also have the value of zener current.
This is because Fig. 5-2 is a series circuit. Note that Is must be less than IzM.
Ideal Zener Diode
For troubleshooting and preliminary analysis, we can approximate the breakdown
region as vertical. Therefore, the voltage is constant even though the current
changes, which is equivalent to ignoring the zener resistance. Figure 5-3 shows
the ideal approximation of a zener diode. This means that a zener diode operating
in the breakdown region ideally acts like a battery. In a circuit, it means that yoп
can mentally replace a zener diode by a voltage source of Vz, provided the zener
diode is operating in the breakdown region.
Example 5-1
Suppose the zener diode of Fig. 5-4a has a breakdown voltage of 10 V. What are
the minimun and maximum zener currents?
Figure 5-4 Example.
820 2
20 TO
40 V Vin
w
20 TO Vout 40 V
820 Ω
Vin
T10 V
(a)
(b)
SOLUTION The applied voltage may vary from 20 to 40 V. Ideally, a zener
diode acts like the battery shown in Fig. 5-4b. Therefore, the output voltage is
10 Vfor any source voltage between 20 and 40 V.
The minimum current occurs when the source voltage is minimum.
Visualize 20 V on the left end of the resistor and 10 V onthe right end. Then
can see that the voltage across the resistor is 20 V - 10 V, or 10 V.The rest is
en you
Ohm's law:
10 V
Is= 8202= 12.2 mA
The maximum current occurs when the source voltage is 40 V. In this case, the
voltage across the resistor is 30 V, which gives a current of
30 V
Is8820 Ω
= 36.6 mA
In a voltage regulator like Fig. 5-4a, the output voltage is held constant
at 10 V, despite the change in source voltage from 20 to 40 V. The larger source
voltage produces more zener current, but the outputvoltage holds rock-solid at
10 V. (If the zener resistance is included, the output voltage increases slightly
when the source voltage increases.)
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-1 Using Fig. 5-4,what is the zener current Is if
V30 V?
Chapapter 5
5-2 The Loaded Zener Regulator
Figure 5-5a shows a loaded zener regulator, and Fig. 5-5b shows the same circuit
with grounds. The zener diode operates in the breakdown region and holds the
load voltage constant. Even if the source voltage changes or the load resistance
varies, the load voltage will remain fixed and equal to the zener voltage.
Breakdown Operation
How can you tell whether the zener diode of Fig. 5-5 is operating in the breakdown region? Because of the voltage divider, the Thevenin voltage facing
diode is:
RL
VTH = Rs+RLVs
the
(5-2)
This is the voltage that exists when the zener diode is disconnected from the circuit. This Thevenin voltage has to be greater than the zener voltage; otherwise,
breakdown cannot occur.
Series Current
Unless otherwise indicated, in all subsequent discussions we assume that the
zener diode is operating in the breakdown region. In Fig. 5-5, the current through
the series resistor is given by:
Vs-Vz
Is=Rs
(5-3)
This is Ohm's law applied to the current-limiting resistor. It is the same whether
or not there is a load resistor. In other words, if you disconnect the load resistor,
the current through the series resistor still equals the voltage across the resistor
divided by the resistance.
Load Current
Ideally, the load voltage equals the zener voltage because the load resistor is in
parallel with the zener diode. As an equation:
VL Vz
This allows us to use Ohm's law to calculate the load current:
VL I7=
AL
Figure 5-5 Loaded zener regulator. (a) Basic circuit; (b) practical circuit.
As
Vs
Special-Purpose Diodes
1豐 ZA 2
(a)
AL V
+
POWER
SUPPLY
Vs
Rs
(9)
ZA
(5-4)
(5-5)
147
Zener Current
With Kirchhoff's current law:
Is=Iz+ IL
The zener diode and the load resistor are in parallel. The sum of their currents
has to equal the total current, which is the same as the current through the series
resistor.
We can rearrange the foregoing equation to get this important formula:
Iz= Is- IL (5-6)
This tells you that the zener current no longer equals the series current, as it does
in an unloaded zener regulator. Because of the load resistor, the zener current now
equals the series current minus the load current.
Table 5-1 summarizes the steps in the analysis of a loaded zener regulator. You start with the series current, followed by the load voltage and load current, and finally the zener current.
Zener Effect
When the breakdown voltage is greater than 6V, the cause of the breakdown is the
avalanche effect, discussed in Chap. 2. The basic idea is that minority carmiers are
accelerated to high enough speeds to dislodge other minority carriers, producing
a chain or avalanche effect that results in a large reversecurrent.
e zener effect is different. When a diode is heavily doped, the depletion layer becomes very narrow. Because of this, the electric field across the depletion layer (voltage divided by distance) is very intense. When the field strength
reaches approximately 300,000 V/cm, the field is intense enough to pull electrons
out of their valence orbits. The creation of free electrons in this way is called the
zener effect (also known as high-field emission). This is distinctly different from
the avalanche effect, which depends on high-speed minority carriers dislodging
valence electrons.
When the breakdown voltage is less than 4 V, only the zener effect occurs. When the breakdown voltage is greater than 6 V, only the avalanche effect
occurs. When the breakdown voltage is between 4 and 6 V, both effects
present.
are
all The zener effect was discovered before the avalanche effect, so
diodes used in the breakdown region came to be known as zener diodes. Although
you may occasionally hear the term avalanche diode, thename zener diode is in
general use for allbreakdown diodes.
GOOD TO KNOW
| Table 5-1| Analyzing a Loaded Zener Regulator
Process Comment
more positive
For zener voltages between
appro oroximately 3 and 8 V, the
temperature coefficient is also
rongly affected by the reverse
current in the diode. The
temperature re coefficient becomes
as current increases.
Step 1 Calculate the series current, Eq. (5-3) Apply Ohm's law to Rs
Step 2 Calculate the load voltage, Eq.(5-4)
Load voltage equals diode
voltage
Step 3 Calculate the load current, Eq. (5-5) Apply Ohm's law to R
Step 4 Calculate the zener current, Eq.(5-6) Apply the current law
to the diode
148
Chapter 5
GOOD TO KNOW
In applications requiring a highly
stable reference voltage, a zener
diode is connected in series with
one or more semiconductor diodes
whose voltage drops change with
temperature in the opposite
direction that V2 changes. The
result is that Vz remains very stable
even though the temperature may.
vary over a wide range.
Temperature Coefficients
When the ambient temperature changes, the zener voltage willchange slighily. On
data sheets the effect of temperature is listed under the temperature coefficient,
which is defined as the change in breakdown voltage per degree of increase. The
temperature coefficient is negative for breakdown voltages less than 4 V (zener
effect). For instance, a zener diode with a breakdown voltage of 3.9 V may have
a temperature coefficient of -1.4 mV/°C. If temperature increases by 1°, the breakdown voltage decreases by 1.4 mV.
On the other hand, the temperature coefficient is positive for breakdown
voltages.greater than 6 V (avalanche effect). For instance, a zener diode with a
breakdown voltage of 6.2 V mayhave a temperature coefficient of 2 mV/°C. If the
temperature increases by 1°, the breakdown voltage increases by 2 mV.
Between 4 and 6 V,the temperature coefficient changes from negative to
positive. In other words, there are zener diodes with breakdown voltages between
4 and 6 V in which the temperature coefficient equals zero. This is important in
some applications when a solid zener voltage is needed over a large temperature
range.
Example 5-2
Is the zener diode of Fig. 5-6a operating in the breakdown region
Figure 5-6 Example.
18 V
270
m
10 V २ 1요2
POWER
SUPPLY
+
18 V
(a)
SOLUTION With Eq. (5-2):
1 ΚΩ
VTH = (18 V) = 14.2V
270 Ω
w
(9)
10 V 211 永2
270 Ω + 1 ΚΩ
Since this Thevenin voltage is greater than the zener voltage, thezener diode is operating in the breakdown regio
Example 5-3
MaltiSim
H MuitiSi
What does the zener current equal in Fig. 5-6b?
SOLUTION You are given the voltage on both ends of the series resistor. Subtract the voltages, and you can cethat
8 V is across the series resistor. Then Ohm's law gives:
I8V - 29.6 mA
2700
Special-Purpose Diodes 149
Since the load voltage is 10 V, the load current is:
7
10V = 10mA
1ΚΩ
The zener current is the difference between the two currents:
Iz = 29.6 mA - 10 mA = 19.6 mA
hge the power suppl upply to 15 V and calculat PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-3 Using Fig. 5-6b, change
Example 5-4
What does the circuit of Fig. 5-7 do?
Figure 5-7 Example.
POWER
SUPPLY
35 V
750 Ω 1 k22
20 V 10 V 2 k52
late Is, IL, and Iz.
!MuitiSim
SOLUTION This is an example of a preregulator (the first zener diode) driving g a zener regulator (the second zener
diode). First, notice that the preregulator has an output voltage of 20 V. This is the input
to the second zener regulator,
whose output is 10 V. The basic idea is to provide the second regulator with a well-regulated input, so that the final output
is extremely well regulated.
Example 5-5
What does the circuit of Fig. 5-8 do?
Figure 5-8 Zener diodes'used for waveshaping.
R
+Vp ww
RL
-V
Vz + 0.7
7
ΠΟ
-Vz-0.7
IIII MultiS
SOLUTION In most applications, zener diodes are used in voltage regulators where they remain in the breakdown region. But there are exceptions. Sometimes zener diodes are used in waveshaping circuits like Fig. 5-8.
Notice the back-to-back connection of two zener diodes. On the positive half cycle, the upper diode conducts and
the lower diode breaks down. Therefore, the output is clipped as shown. The clipping level equals the zener voltage
(broken-down diode) plus 0.7 V(forward-biased diode).
On the negative half cycle, the action is reversed. The lower diode conducts, and the upper diode breaks down. In
this way, the output is almost a square wave. The larger the input sine wave, the better-looking the output square wave.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-5 In Fig. 5-8, the V2 for each diode is 3.3 V.What would the voltage across Rz be?
150
Chapter 5
Example 5-6
Briefly describe the circuit action for each of the circuits in Fig Fig. 5-9.
Figure 5-9 Zener applications. (o) Producing nonstandard output voltag taes; (b) using a 6-Vrelay in a 12-V system; (c) using a 6-V
capacitor in a 12-V system.
As
+
+13.8 V
2.4 V
POWER
SUPPLY
20 V
+11.4 V
0.7
+10.7 V
0.7 V
O+10A
10 V
(a)
+
POWER
SUPPLY
5.6 V
12 V
POWER
SUPPLY
9-V 6.4 V RELAY
(g)
T
6.8 V
12 V
1000 F
6-V RATING
5.2 V
{0)
SOLUTION
Figure 5-9a shows how zencener diodes and ordinary silicon diodes canan produce several de output voltages, given a 20-V power supply. The bottom diode d produces an output of 10 V. Each silicon diode is forward biased, producing
outputs of 10.7 Vand 11.4 11 V, as shown. The top diode has a breakdown voltage of 2.4 V, givinghg an output of 13.8 V. With
other combinations of zener zener and silicon diodes, a circuit like this can produce different de output ut voltages.
If you try to connect a
a 6-V relay to a 12-V system, you will probably damage the relay. аy. It is necessary to dr
some of the voltage. Figure 5-9b shows on
one way to do this. By connecting a 5.6-V zener diode inin series with the relay
only 6:4 Vappears across the relay, whichis is usually within the tolerance oftherelay's voltage rating.
Large electrolytic capacitors often ha
have small voltage ratings. For instance, an electrolytic capacitor of 1000 μF
may have a voltage rating of only 6 V. This
means that the maximum voltage across the capacitor should be less than 61
Figure 5-9c shows a workaround solution
on in which a 6-V electrolytic capacitor is used with a 12-V power supply. Again,
the idea is to use a zener diode to drop sonome of the voltage. In this case, the zener diode drops 6.8 V, leaving only 5.2 V
across the capacitor. This way, the electrol rolytic capacitor can filter the power supply and still remain with its voltage rating.
Special-Purpose Diodes 151
GOOD TO KNOW
Zener diodes with breakdown
voltages near 7 V have the smallest
zener impedance.
5-3 Second Approximation
of a Zener Diode
Figure 5-10a shows the second approximation of a zener diode. Azener resistance
is in series with an ideal battery. The total voltage across the zener diode equals
the breakdown voltage plus the voltage drop across the zener resistance. Since Rz
is relatively small in a zener diode, it has only a minor effect on the total voltage
across the zener diode.
Effect on Load Voltage
How can we calculate the effect of the zener resistance on the load voltage? Figure 5-10b shows a power supply driving a loaded zener regulator. Ideally, the load
voltage equals the breakdown voltage Vz. But in the second approximation, we include the zener resistance as shown in Fig. 5-10c. The additional voltage drod
across Rzwill slightly increase the load voltage.
Since the zener current flows through the zener resistance in Fig. 5-10c,
the load voltage is given by:
VL= Vz+ IzRz
As you can see, the change in the load voltage from the ideal case is:
AVL IZRZ (5-7)
Usually, Rz is small, so the voltage change is small, typically in tenths of a volt.
For instance, if Iz = 10 mA and Rz = 10 , then AVL = 0.1 V.
Figure 5-10 Second approximation of a zener diode. (a) Equivalent circuit;
(b) power supply drives zener regulator; (c) zener resistance included in ana
nalysis.
152
POWER
SUPPLY
POWER
SUPPLY
Vs.
Sy
As
=
)a(
(9)
(c)
VZ
T
TA
ZA
く
>
구
RL
Chapter 5
Figure 5-11 Zener regulator reduces ripple. (a) Complete ac equivalent circuit; b) simplified ac equivalent circuit.
Rs
POWER
A
SUPPLY Rin)
w
R SHz
두 구
POWER
SUPPLY
Riin)
Effect on Ripple
(a)
Rs
(b)
수
Zy
<
RL VRlout)
VRiout)
As far as ripple is concerned, we can use the equivalent circuit shown in
Fig. 5-11a. In other words, the only components that affect the ripple are the three
resistances shown. We can simplify this even further. In a typical design, Rz is
much smaller than RL. Therefore, the only two components that have a significant
effect on ripple are the series resistance and zener resistance shown in Fig. 5-11b.
Since Fig. 5-11b is a voltage divider, we can write the following equation
for the output ripple:
Rz VR(out) R(in) Rs + Rz
Ripple calculations are not critical; that is,they don't have to be exact. Since Rs is
always much greater than Rz in a typical design, we can use this approximation
for all troubleshooting and preliminary analysis:
RZ VR(out) VR(in)
Rs
(5-8)
Example 5-7
The zener diöde of Fig. 5-12 has a breakdown voltage of 10 V and a zenerresistance of 8.5 n.Use the second approximation to calculate the load voltage when the zener current is 20 mA.
Figure 5-12 Loaded zener regulator.
Special-Purrpose Diodes
Rs
www
POWER
Vs
SUPPLY RL
153
SOLUTION The change in load voltage equals the zener current times the zener resistance:
AVLI2Rz =(20 mA)(8.5 ) = 0.17 V
To a second approximation, the load voltage is:
VL = 10 V + 0.17 V = 10.17 V
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-7 Use the second approximation to calculate the load voltage ofFig. 5-12 when
Iz = 12 mA.
Example 5-8
In Fig. 5-12, Rs = 270 N, R2 = 8.5 , and VR(in) 2V. What is the approximate ripple voltage across the load?
SOLUTION The load ripple approximately equals the ratio of Rz to Rs, times the input ripple:
VR(out) 8.50
2V = 63 mV 2700
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-8 Using Fig. 5-12, what is the approximate load ripple voltage if VR (in) = 3 V?
Example 5-9
The zener regulator ofFig. 5-13 has Vz = 10 V, Rs = 270 , and Rz = 8.5 , the same values used in Examples 5-7 and
5-8. Describe the measurements being made in this MultiSim circuit analysis.
I MaltiSi Figure 5-13 MultiSim analysis of ripple in zener regulator.
XSC1
154
120
09
Vmms.
 ZH
8:1
Channel 1 Channel 2.
270uF 3900
w
270 0
10V 1점
Chapter 5
Figure 5-13 (continued)
.Tektroohv
Agilent
18 77706 VDC
FUNCTIGN
ANGE/DIQITS
Rear Panel
CHOЈOевLEVEL ENTER LOCAL
0 0000
SOLUTION. If we calculate the voltages in Fig. 5-13 using the methods discussed earlier, we will get the following
results. With an 8:1 transformer, the peak secondary voltage is 21.2 V. Subtract two diode drops, and you get a peak of
19.8 V across the filter capacitor. The current through the 390-n resistor is 51 mA, and the current through Rs is 36 mA.
The capacitor has to supply the sum of these two currents, currents, which is 87 mA.With Eq. (4-10), this current results in a ripple
across the capacitor of approximately 2.7 V pp.With this, we can calculate the ripple out of the zener regulator, which is
approximately 85 mV pp.
Since the ripple is large, the voltage across the capacitor swings from a high of 19.8 V to a low of 17.1 V. If you
average these two values, you get 18.5 V as the approximate dc voltage across the filter capacitor. This lower dc voltage
means that the input and output ripple calculated earlier will also be lower. As discussed in the preceding chapter, calculations like these are only estimates because the exact analysis has to include higher-order effects.
Now, let us look at the MultiSim measurements, which are almost exact answers. The multimeter reads 18.78 V,
very close to the estimated value of 18.5 V. Channel 1 of the oscilloscope shows the ripple across the capacitor. It is approximately 2 Vpp, somewhat less than the estimated 2.7 V pp, but still in reasonable agreement. And finally, the output
ripple of the zener regulator is approximately 85 mV pp (channel 2).
Special-Purpose Diod iodes 155
156.
5-4 Zener Drop-Out Point
For a zener regulator to hold the output voltage constant, the zener diode must
remain in the breakdown region under all operating conditions. This is equivalent
to saying that there must be zener current for all source voltages and load currents.
Worst-Case Conditions
Figure 5-14a shows a zener regulator. It has the following currents:
and
1s= Vs-Vz 20V-10 V - 50 mA
Rs
IVL 10V
R 1 kU
200 12
10 mA
Iz= Is - I= 50 mA - 10 mA 40 mA
Now, consider what happens when the source voltage decreases from
20 to 12 V. In the foregoing calculations, you can see that Is will decrease, Iz will
remain the same, and Iz will decrease. When Vs equals 12 V, Is will equal 10 mA,
and Iz0. At this low source voltage, the zener diode is about to come out of the
breakdown region. If the source decreases any further, regulation will be lost. In
other words, the load voltage will become less than 10 V. Therefore, a low source
voltage can cause the zener circuit to fail to regulate.
Another way to get a loss of regulation is by having too much load current. In Fig. 5-14a, consider what happens when the load resistance decreases
from 1 kl to 200 N. When the load resistance is 200 n, the load current increases
to 50 mA and the zener current decreases to zero. Again, the zener diode is about
to come out of breakdown. Therefore, a zener circuit will fail to regulate if the
load resistance is too low.
Finally, consider what happens when Rs increases from 200 to 1 kn.
In this case, the series current decreases from 50 to 10 mA. Therefore, a high
series resistance can bring the circuit out of regulation.
Figure 5-14 Zener regulator. (o) Normal operation; (6) worst-case conditions at
drop-out point.
Rs
200 2
POWER
SUPPLY
20 V
POWER
SUPPLY
+
Simin)
(a)
Rstmax)
(9)
T
10 V 13
Ty
k52
I₂ NEAR
ZERO
FLimin)
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
Figure 5-14b summarizes theferegoing ideas by showing the worst-case
conditions. When the zener current is near zero, the zener regulation is approaching a drop-out or failure condition. By anaiyzing the circuit for these worst-case
conditions, it is possible to derive the following equation:
S(min)1
AS(max) 1 RL(min) (5-9)
An alternative form of this equation is also useful:
RS(mas) YS(min) -Vz
IL(max) (5-10)
These two equations are useful because you can check a zener regulator to see
whether it will fail under any operating conditions.
Example 5-10
A zener regulator has an input voltage that may vary from 22 to 30 V. If the
regulated output voltage is 12 V and the load resistance varies from 140 to
10kO, what is the maximum allowable series resistance?
SOLUTION Use Eq. (5-9) to caleulate the maximum series resistance as
follows:
RSimax) =15- (22-1 140 ປີ = 117
12V
As long as the series resistance is less than 117 , the zener regulator will work
properly under all operating conditions.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-10 Using Example 5-10, what is the maximum
allowable series resistance if the regulated output voltage is 15 V?
Example 5-11
A zener regulator has an input voltage ranging from 15 to 20 V and a load
current ranging from 5 to 20 mA. If the zener voltage is 6.8 V, what is the
maximum allowable series resistance?
SOLUTION Use Eq. (5-10) to calculate the maximum series resistance as
follows:
15 V-6.8 V
Rs(max)
20 mA
410 Ω
If the series resistance is less than 410 N, the zener regulator will work properly
under all conditions.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5~11 Repeat Example 5-11 using a zener voltage
of 5.1 V.
157
158
5-5 Reading a Data Sheet
Figure 5-15 shows the data sheets forthe 1N957B and 1N4728A series of zener
diodes. Refer to these data sheets during the following discussion. Again, most of
the information on a data sheet is for designers, but there are a few items that even
troubleshooters and testers will want to know about.
Maximum Power
The power dissipation of a zener diode equals the product of its voltage and
current:
Pz= Vzłz
(5-11)
For instance, if Vz = 12
V and Iz = 10 mA, the
Pz (12 V)(10 mA) = 120 mW
As long as Pz is less than the power rating, the zener diode can operate in the
breakdown region without being destroyed. Commercially available zener diodes
have power ratings from ¼ to more than 50 W.
For example, the data sheet for the IN957B series lists a maximum.
power rating of 500 mW. A safe design includes asafety factor to keep the power
dissipation well below this 500-mW maximum. As mentioned elsewhere, safety
factors of 2 or more are used for conservative designs.
Maximum Current
Data sheets often include the maximum current a zener diode can handle without
exceeding its power rating. I2M for a 1N961B is shown to be 32 mA. If this value
is not listed, the maximum current can be found as follows:
PZM
IzM =
V2
(5-12)
where IzM maximum rated zener current
PzM power rating
Vz
= zener voltage
For example, the 1N4742A has a zener voltage of 13
Vand a 1
W power rating.
Therefore, it has a maximuni current rating of 1W
IZM
== 12V = 83.3 mA
If you satisfy the current rating, you automatically satisfy the power rating. For instance, if you keep the maximum zener current less than 83.3 mA, you
are also keeping the maximum power dissipation less than 1 W. Ifyouthrow inthe
safety factor of 2, you don't have to worry about a marginal design blowing the
diode.
Tolerance
to
Most zener diodes will have a suffix A, B, C, or. D to identify the zener voltage
tolerance. Because these suffix markings are not always consistent, be sure
identify any special notes included on the zener's data sheet that indicate that
specific tolerance. For instance, the data sheet for the 1N4728A series shows its
tolerance to equal ±5 percent while the 1N957B series also has
 a tolerance of
±5 percent. A suffix of
C generally indicates ±2 percent, D ±1 percent, and no
suffix ±20 percent.
Chapter 5
Figure 5-1'5(a) Zener data sheets. (Copyright of Fairchild Semiconductor. Used by Permission).
ROHILO
SEMICONDUCTOR
Zeners
1N957B - 1N991В
Absolute Maximum Ratings*TA= 25°C unless otherwise noted
Symbol
Parameter
PD Power Dissipation
@TL≤ 75°C, Lead Length = 3/8"
Derate above 75°C
Value
500
4.0
TJ. TSTO Operating and Storage Temperature Range -65 to +200
•These ratings are llmiting values above which the serviceability of the diode may be impaired.
Tolerance €5%
Units
mM
mW/°C
°C
DO-35 Glasass case
COLOR BAND DENOTES CATHODE
Zeners 1N957B-1N991B
Electrical Characteristics TA25°C uniess otherwise noted
Vz(Volts) (Note 1) Zz (2) (Note 2) IRVR
Device
Min. Тур. Max.
z
(mA)
ZZKZK
25 ZZ-Z
μA Volts
Iz (mA)
(Note 3)
MA
1N957B 6.46 6.8 7.14 18.5 4.5 700 1.0 150 5.2 47
1N9588 7.125 7.5 7.875 16.5 5.5 700 0.5 75 5.7 42
1N959B 7.79 B.2 8.61 15 6.5 700 0.5 50 6.2 38
1N960B 8.645 9.1 9.555 14 7.5 700 0.5 25
9'9
35
1N961B 9.5 10 10.5 2.5 8.5 700 0.25 10 7.6 32
1N962B 10.45 11 11.55 11.5 9:5 700 0.25 5 8.4 28
1N963B 11.4 12
N964B 12.35 13
1N965B 14.25 15
9999N
15.2 16
12.6
13.65
15.75
16.8
10.5 11.5 700 0.25 5 9.1 26
9.5 13 700 0.25
5
9.9 24
8.5 16 700 0.25 5 11.4 21
7.8 17 700 0.25 5 12.2 19
1N967B 17.1 18 18.9 7.0 21 750 0.25
5
13.7 17
1N968B
N969B
1N970B
1N971B
19 20
20.9 22
22.8 24
21
23.1
25.2
6.2
5.6
5.2
25 750 0.25 5 15.2 15
29 750 0.25 5 16.7 14
33 750 0.25 5 18.2 13
25.652 27 28.35 4.6 41 750 0.25 5 20.6 11
1N972B 8.5 30 31.5 4.2 49 1000 0.25 5 22.8 10
1N973B 31.35 33
1N974B 34.2 36
1N975B 37.05 39
1N976B 40.85 43
34.65
37.8
40.95
45.15
3.8 58 1000 0.25 5 25.1 9.2
3.4 70. 1000 0.25 5 27.4 8.5
3.2 80 1000 0.25 5 29.7 7.8
3.0 93 1500 0.25
1N977B 44.65 47 49.35 2.7 105 1500 0.25
5
5
32.7 7.0
35.8 6.4
1N973B 48.45 51 53.55 2.5 125 1500 0.25 5 38.8 5.9
1N979B 53.2 56 58.8 2.2 150 2000 0.25
5
42.6 5.4
1N9808 58.9 62 65.1 2.0 185 2000 0.25 5 47.1 4.9
1N9818 64.6 68 71.4 1.8 230 2000 0.25 5 51.7 4.5
Notes:
1. Zener Voitage (Vz) Measurament
Nominal zener voltage is messured wih the device junction in the thernal equlibrium at the lead temperature (TL) at 30°C 11°C and 3/8" lead length.
2. Zener Impedance (Zz) Derivation
721 eup Zzx are measured by dividing the ac voltage drop across the device bythe as current applied. The specttled imits are tor IZtac) 0.1 Iz(de) with the ac freqиелсу = 60H2.
8. Maximum Zener Currer Maximum Zener Current Ralings (izm)
The maximum currant handling capabillty on a worst case basis is limited bythe actual zener voltage at the operation point and the power derating curve.
2004 Falrchild Semlcanductor Corporation M9578 - 1N9919, Rev. É2
Special-Purpose Diodes 159
Figure 5-15(b) (continued)
FAIROHILD
SEMIOOND.CTOR
Zeners
1N4728A - 1N4764A
Absolute Maximum Ratings*
Symbol
PD
Parameter
Power Dissipation
@ TL ≤ 50°C, Lead Length 3/8"
Derate above 50°C
TA =25°C unless otherwise noted
Units
Tolerance = 5%
Value
1.0
6.67
M
TJ. TSTG Operating and Storage Temperature Range
-65 to +200
These ratings are limiting values above which the serviceability of the diode may ba impaired.
mW/°C
C
Electrical Characteristics TA =25°C untess otherwise noted
DO-41 Glass case
COLOR BAND DENOTES CATHODE
Zeners 1N4728A
 - 1N4764A
Vz (V) @z (Note 1)
Max. Zener Impedance
Device
Min. тур. Max.
Test Current
Iz (mA)
Zz @lz
(U) ZZK@IzK
)2}
IZK
(mA)
레
Leakage Curres
VR
rent
(A)
(A)
1N4728 28A 3.315 3.3 3.465 76 10 400 1 100 1
1N4729 3.42 3.6 3.78
69
10 400 1 100 1
1N4730A 3.705 3.9 4.095 64
400 1 50 1
1N474731A 4.085 4.3 4.515 58
6
400 10
1N4732A 4.465 4.7 4.935 53
8 500 10 1
1N4733A
1N4734A
1N4735A
1N4736A
1N4737A
4.845 5.1 5.355 49 7
550 1 10 1
5.32 5.6
5.88 45 5
009
1 10 2
5.89 6.2 6.51 41 2 700 10
ε
6.46 6.8
7.14 37 3.5 700 1
10 4
7.125 7.5 7.875 34 4 700 0.5 10 5
1N4738A 7.79 8.2 8.61 31 4.5 700 0.5 10
9
1N4739A 8.645 9.1 9.555
ລ7. 5 700 0.5 10 7
1N4740A 9.5 10 10.5 25 700 0.25 10 7.6
1N4741A 10.45 11 11.55 23 8 700 0.25 5 8.4
1N4742A 11.4 12 12.6 21
6
700 0.25
1N4743A 12.35 13 13.65 16 10 700 0.25
6'6
요
9.1
1N4744A
1N4745A
1N4746A
14.25 15 15.75 17 14 700 0.25 5 11.4
15.2 16 16.8 15.5 16 700 0.25 5 12.2
17.1 18 18.9 14 20 700 0.25 5 13.7
1N4747A 19 20 21 12.5 22 700 0.25 5 15.2
1N4748A 20.9 22 23.1 11.5 23 750 0.25
5
16.7
1N4749A 22.8 24 25.2 10.5 25 750 0.25 5
18.2
1N4750A 25.65 27
1N4751A 28.5 30
1N4752A 31.35 33
28.35
31.5
34.65
9.5 35 750 0.25 5 20.6
8.5 40 1000 0.25 5 22.8
7.5 45 1000 0.25 5 25.1
1N4753A 34.2 36 37.8 7 50 1000 0.25 5 27.4
1N4754A 37.05 39 40.95 6.5
09
1000 0.25
5
29.7
1N4755A 40.85 43 45.15 70 1500 0.25 5 32.7
1N4756A 44.65 47 49.35 5.5 80 1500 0.25 5 35.8
1N4757A 48.45 51 53.55 5 65 1500 0.25 5 38.8
1N4728A-114764A, Rev. F2 2004 Farchid Semiconductor Corporation
160
Chapter 5
Zener Resistance
The zener resistance (also called zener impedance) may be designated Rzr or Zzr.
For instance, the 1N961B has a zener resistance of 8.5 measured at a test current of 12.5 mA. As long as the zener current is beyond the knee of the curve, you
can use 8.5 as the approximate value of the zener resistance. But note how the
zener resistance increases at the knee of the curve (700 ). The point is this:
Operation should be at or near the test current, if at all possible. Then you know
that the zener resistance is relatively small.
The data sheet contains a lot of additional information, but it is primarily
aimed at designers. Ifyou do get involved in design work, then you have to read the
data sheet carefully, including the notes that specify how quantities were measured.
Derating
The derating factor shown on a data sheet tells you how much you have to reduce the power rating of a device. For instance, the 1N4728A series has a power
rating of 1 W for a lead temperature of 50°C. The derating factor is given as
6.67 mW/°C. This means thatyou have to subtract 6.67 mW for each degree above
50°C. Even though you may not be involved in design, you have to be aware ofthe
effect of temperature. If it is known that the lead temperature will be above 50°C,
the designer has to derate or reduce the power rating of the zener diode.
Figure 5-16 Troubleshooting a zener.
regulator.
+18 V
A
Rs27052
10. V
3
R
1 k2
5-6 Troubleshooting
Figure 5-16 shows a zener regulator. When the circuit is working properly, the
voltage between A and ground is +18 V, the voltage between B and ground is
+10 V,and the voltage between C and ground is +10 V.
Unique Symptoms
Now, let's discuss what can go wrong with the circuit. When a circuit is not working as it should, a troubleshooter usually starts by measuring voltages. These voltage measurements give clues that help isolate the trouble. For instance, suppose
these voltages are measured:
VA=+18 V VB = +10 V Vc= 0
Here is what may go through a troubleshooter's mind after measuring the foregoing voltages:
What if the load resistor were open? No, the load voltage would still be
10 V. What if the load resistor were shorted? No, that would pull B and
Cdown to ground, producing 0 V. All right, what if the connecting wire
between B and C were open? Yes, that would do it.
This trouble produces unique symptoms. The only way you can get this set
voltages is with an open connection between B.and C.
Ambiguous Symptoms
of
Not all troubles produce unique symptoms. Sometimes, two or more troubles produce the same set of voltages. Here is an example. Suppose the troubleshooter
measures these voltages:
V₁ = +18 V VB 0 Vc=0
What do you think the trouble is? Think about this for a few minutes. WheWhen you
have an answer, read what follows.
Special-Purpose Diodes 161
162
Here is a way that a troubleshooter might find the trouble. The think
nking
goes like this:
I've got voltage at A, but not at B and C. What if the series resistor
torwere
open? Then no voltage could reach B or C, but I would still mea
easure
18 V.between AA and ground. Yes, the series resistor is probably ope
pen.
Atthis point, the troubleshooter would disconnect the series resistor and measure
its resistance with an ohmmeter. Chances are that it would be open. But suppose
it measures OK. Then the troubleshooter's thinking continues like this:
That's strange. Well, is there any other way I can get 18
Vat
A and 0 V
at B and C? What if the zener diode were shorted? What if the load
resistor were shorted? What if a solder splash were between B or Canр
ground? Any of these willproduce the symptoms I'm getting.
Now the troubleshooter has more possible troubles to check out. Eventually, he or
she will find the trouble.
When components burn out, they may become open, but not always.
Some semiconductor devices can develop internal shorts, in which case they are
like zero resistances. Other ways to get shorts include a solder splash between
traces on
a printed-circuit board, a solder ball touching two traces, and so on.
Because of this, you must include what-if questions in terms of shorted components, as well as open components.
Table of Troubles
Table 5-2 shows the possible troubles for the zener regulator ofFig. 5-16. In working out the voltages, remember this: Ashorted component is equivalent to a resistance ofzero, and an opencomponent is equivalent to a resistance of infinity. Ifyou
have trouble calculating with 0 and co,use 0.001 and 1000 M2. In other words,
use a very small resistance for ashort and a very large resistance for an open.
In Fig. 5-16, the series resistor Rs may be shorted or open. Let us designate
these troubles as Rss and Rso. Similarly, the zener diode may be shorted or open,
symbolized by Dis and Dio. Also the load resistor may be shorted or open, Rts and
RLo. Finally, the connecting wire between B and C may be open, designated BСо.
Table 5-2 Zener Requlator Troubles and Sympto toms
 |
Trouble Non
VAV
18
VBr
V
10
VG V
10
1.8
Comments
No trouble.
Di and yL
SSH may be open. 18 18
Rso 18
DiS
18
0
이
0
0
As may be open..
Dio 18 14.2 14.2.
RIS 18
이
Rs may be open.
RLO 18 10 10
BCo 18 10
0
No supply
이
0
이
Check power supply.
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
In Table 5-2, the second row shows the voltages when the trouble is Rss.
a shorted series resistor. When the series resistor is shorted in Fig. 5-16, 18 Vappears at B and C. This destroys the zener diode and possibly the load resistor. For
this trouble, avoltmeter measures 18 V at points A, B, and C. This trouble and its voltages are shown in Table 5-2.
If the series resistor were open in Fig. 5-16, the voltage could not reach
point B. In this case, B and C would have zero voltage, as shown in Table 5-2.
Continuing like this, we can get the remaining entries of Table 5-2.
In Table 5-2, the comments indicate troubles that might occur as a direct
result of the original short circuits. For instance, a shorted Rs will destroy the
zener diode and may also open the load resistor. It'depends on the power rating of
the load resistor. Ashorted Rs means that there's 18 Vacross 1 k. This produces
a power of 0.324 W. If the load resistor is rated at only 0.25 W, it may open.
Some of the troubles in Table 5-2 produce unique voltages, and others
produce ambiguous voltages. For instance, the voltages for Rss, D1o, BCo, and No
supply are unique. If you measure these unique voltages, you can can identify the
trouble without breaking into the circuit to make an ohmmeter measurement.
On the other hand, all the other troubles in Table 5-2 produce ambiguous
voltages. This means that two or more troubles can produce the same set of voltages. If you measure a set of ambiguous voltages, you will need to break into the
circuit and measure the resistance ofthe suspected components. For instance, suppose you measure 18 V atA, O V at B, and 0 V at C. The troubles that can produce
these voltages are Rso, Dis, and RLS.
Zener diodes can be tested in a variety of ways. A DMM, set to the diode
range, will enable the diode to be tested for being open or shorted. A normal reading will be approximately 0.7 V in the forward-biased direction and an open
(overrange) indication in the reverse-biased direction. This test, though, will not
indicate ifthe zener diode has the proper breakdown voltage Vz..
A semiconductor curve tracer, shown in Fig. 5-17, will accurately display the zener's forward/reverse-biased characteristics. If a curve tracer is not
available, a simple test is to measure the voltage drop across the zener diode while
connected in a circuit. The voltage drop should be close to its rated value.
Figure 5-17 Curve Tracer.
3708 JAET:"
Tektronix, inc.2c. Reprinted withth permission. All rights reserved.
163.
Figure 5-18. (a) Zener regulator
circuit; (b) loadad lines.
Rs
VZ
(a)
5-7 Load Lines
The current through the zener diode of Fig. 5-18a is given by
=Vs-Vz
Iz
Rs
Suppose Vs = 20 V and Rs 1 kn.Then the foregoing equation reduces to:
20-Vz
Iz 1000
-30 V -20 V -12 V
We get the saturation point (vertical intercept) by setting Vz equal to zer
zero and
solving for Iz to get 20 mA. Similarly, to get the cutoff point (horizontal intercept), we set Iz equal to zero and solve for Vz to get 20 V.
Alternatively, you can getthe ends of the load line as follows. Visualize
Fig. 5-18a with Vs= 20 Vand Rg = 1 k.With the zener diode shorted, the maximum diode current is 20 mA. With the diode open, the maximum diode voltage
02 is 20 V.
-20 MA
-30 mA
-33 mA
(9)
Suppose the zener diode has a breakdown voltage of 12 V. Then its graph
appears as shown in Fig. 5-18b. When we plot the load line for Vs = 20 V and
Rs = 1 k, we get the upper load line with an intersection point of Q1. The voltage across the zener diode will be slightly more than the knee voltage at breakdown because the curve slopes slightly.
To understand how voltage regulation works, assume that the source
voltage chánges to 30 V. Then the zener current changes to:
Iz30-Vz
1000
in This implies that the ends of the load line are 30 mA and 30 V, as shown
Fig. 5-18b. The new intersection is at Q2. Compare 2 with Q1, and you can see
that there is more current through the zener diode, but approximately the same
zener voltage. Therefore, even though the source voltage has changed from 20 to
30 V, the zener voltage is still approximately equal to 12 V.This is the basic idea
of voltage regulation; the output voltage has remained almost constant even
though the input voltage has changed by a large amount.
5-8 Optoelectronic Devices
Optoelectronics is the technology that combines optics and electronics. This field
includes many devices based on the action of a pn junction. Examples of optoelectronic devices are light-emitting diodes (LEDs), photodiodes, optocouplers,
and laser diodes. Our discussion begins with the LED.
Light-Emitting Diode
Figure 5-19a shows a source connected to a resistor and an LED. The outward arrows symbolize the radiated light. In a forward-biased LED, free electrons cross.
the junction and fall into holes. As these electrons fall from a higher to a lower
energy level, they radiate energy: In ordinary diodes, this energy is radiated in the
form ofheat. But in an LED, the energy is radiated as light. LEDs made from different elements have the ability to radiate energy across a wide wavelength spectrum. LEDs have replaced incandescent lamps in many applications because of
their lowvoltage, long life, and fast on-off switching.
164
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
Figure 5-19 LED indicator. (a) Basic circuit; (b) practical circuit; (c) typical LEDS.
Rs
SA
(a)
VD
POWER
SUPPLY
Red Green
(c)
SA
(b)
Vo
By using elements like gallium, arsenic, and phosphorus, a manufacturer
can produce LEDs that radiate red, green, yellow, blue, orange, or infrared (invisible). LEDs that produce visible radiation are useful with instruments, calculators,
and so on. The infrared LED finds applications in burglar alarm systems, remote
controls, CD players, and other devices requiring invisible radiation.
LED Voltage and Current
The resistor of Fig. 5-19b is the usual current-limiting resistor that prevents the
current from exceeding the maximum current rating of the diode. Since the resistor has a node voltage of Vs onthe left and a node voltage ofVp on the right, the
voltage across the resistor is the difference between the two voltages. With Ohm's
law, the series current is:
VS-VD
Is Rs
(5-13)
For most commercially available LEDs, the typical voltage drop is from
1.5 to 2.5 V for currents between 10 and 50 mA. The exact voltage drop depends
on the LED current, color, tolerance, and so on. Unless otherwise specified, we
will use a nominal drop of 2 V when troubleshooting or analyzing the LED
circuits in this book. Fig. 5-19c shows typical LEDS.
LED Brightness
The brightness of an LED depends on the current. When Vs is much greater than
Vp in Eq. (5-13), the brightness of the LED is approximately constant. For instance, a TIL222 is a green LED with a forward voltage of between 1.8 (minimum) and 3 V (maximum), for a current of 25 mA. If a circuit like Fig. 5-19b is
mass-produced using a TIL222, the brightness of the LED will be Imost const
if Vs is much greater than Vp. If Vs is only slightly more than Vp, the LED brightness will vary noticeably from one circuit to the next.
165
GOOD TO KNOW
The principal disadvantage of LEDs
is that they draw considerable
current in comparison to other
types of visual displays. In many
cases, LEDs are pulsed on and off
at a rapid rate, rather than being
supplied with a steady drive
current. LEDs appear to the eye to
be on continuously, but they
consume less power than if they
were on continuously.
The best way to control the brightness is by driving the LED with a current source. This way, the brightness is constant because the current is constant.
When we discuss transistors (they act like current sources), we will show how to
use a transistor to drive an LED.
Breakdown Voltage
LEDs have very low breakdown voltages, typically between 3 and 5 V. Because
of this, they are easily destroyed if reverse biased with too much voltage. When
troubleshooting an LED circuit in which the LED will not light, check the pblarity of the LED connection to make sure that it is forward biased.
An LED is often used to indicate the presence of power-line voltage into
equipment. In this case, a rectifier diode may be used in parallel with the LED to
prevent reverse-bias destruction of the LED, An example of using arectifier diode
to protect an LED is given later.
Seven-Segment Display
Figure 5-20a shows a seven-segment display. It contains seven rectangular LEDS
(A through G). Each LED is called a segment because it forms part of the character being displayed. Figure 5-20b is a schematic diagram of the seven-segment
display. External series resistors are included to limit the currents to safe levels.
By grounding one, or more resistors, we can form any digit from 0through 9. For
instance, by grounding A, B, and C, we get a 7. Grounding A, B, C, D, and G
produces a 3.
Aseven-segment display can also display capital letters A, C, E, and F,
plus lowercase letters b and d. Microprocessor trainers often use seven-segment
displays that show all digits from 0 through 9, plus A, b, C, d, E, and F.
The seven-segment indicator of Fig. 5-20b is referred to as the commonanode type because all anodes are connected together. Also available is the
common-cathode type, inwhich all cathodes are connected together.
Photodiode
As previously discussed, one component of reverse current in a diode is the flow
of minority carriers. These carriers exist because thermal energy keeps dislodging
valence electrons from their orbits, producing free electrons and holes in the
process. The lifetime of the minority carriers is short, but while they exist, they
can contribute to the reverse current.
When light energy bombards apnjunction, it can dislodge valence electrons. The more light striking the junction, the larger the reverse current in a
diode. Aphotodiode has been optimized for its sensitivity to light. In this diode,
a window lets light pass through the package to the junction. The incoming light
166
Figure 5-20 Seven-segment indicator. (a) Physical layout of segments;
(b) schematic diagram.
3
A
F B
G
D
(a)
A OD ㅇE F OG
(9)
Chapter 5
Figure ire 5-21 Incoming light increases
reveverse current in photodiode.
R
GOOD TO KNOW
An important specification for the
optocoupler is its current/transfer
ratio,which is the ratio of the
device's output (photodiode or
phototransistor) current to its input
(LED) current.
produces free electrons and holes. The stronger the light, the greater the numbe
of minority carriers and the larger the reverse current.
Figure 5-21 shows the schematic symbol of a photodiode. The arrOWS
represent the incoming light. Especially important, the source and the serie
resistor reverse bias the photodiode. As the light becomes brighter, the revers
current increases. With typical photodiodes, the reverse current is in the tens
microamperes.
Optocoupler
s of
An optocoupler (also called an optoisolator) combines an LED and a photodiode
in a single package. Figure 5-22 shows an optocoupler. It has an LED on the input
side and a photodiode on the output side. The left source voltage and the series
resistor set up a current through the LED. Then the light from the LED hits the
photodiode, and this sets up a reverse current in the output circuit. This reverse
current produces a voltage across the output resistor. The output voltage then
equals the output supply voltage minus the voltage across the resistor.
When the input voltage is varying, the amount of light is fluctuating.
This means that the output voltage is varying in step with the input voltage. This
is why the combination of an LED and a photodiode is called an optocoupler. The
device can couple an input signal to the output circuit. Other types of optocouplers
use phototransistors, photothyristors, and other photo devices in their output
circuit side. These devices will be discussed in later chapters.
The key advantage of an optocoupler is the electrical isolation between
the input and output circuits. With an optocoupler, the only contact between the
input and the output is a beam of light. Because of this, it is possible to have an insulation resistance between the two circuits in the thousands of megohms. Isolation like this is useful in high-voltage applications in which the potentials of the
two circuits may differ by several thousand volts.
Laser Diode
In an LED, free electrons radiate light when falling from higher energy levels to
lower ones. The free electrons fall randomly and continuously, resulting in light
waves that have every phase between 0 and 360°. Light that has many different
phases is called noncoherent light. An LED produces noncoherent light.
Alaser diode is different. It produces a coherent light. This means that
all the light waves are in phase with each other. The basic idea of a laser diode is
to use a mirrored resonant chamber that reinforces the emission of light waves at
a single frequency of the same phase. Because of the resonance, a laser diode produces a narrow beam of light that is very intense, focused, and pure.
Laser diodes are also known as semiconductor lasers. These diodes can
produce visible light (red, green, or blue) and invisible light (infrared). Laser
diodes are used in a large variety of applications. They are used in telecommunications, data communications, broadband access, industrial, aerospace, test and
measurement, medical and defense industries. They are also used in laser printers
and consumer products requiring large-capacity optical disk systems, such as
Figure 5-22 Optocoupler combines an LED and a photodiode.
Special-Purpose Diodes
A
Vout
R2
V2
167
168
compact disk (CD) and digital video disk (DVD) players. In broadband communication, they are used with fiber-optic cables to increase the speed of the Internet.
Afiber-optic cable is analogous to a stranded wire cable, except that the
strands are thin flexible fibers of glass or plastic thattransmit light beams instead
'of free electrons. The advantage is that much more information can be sent
through a fiber-optic cable than through a copper cable.
New applications are being found as the lasing wavelength is pushed
lower into the visible spectrum with visible laser diodes (VLDs). Also, nearinfrared diodes are being used in machine vision systems, sensors, and security
systems.
Example 5-12
Figure 5-23a shows a voltage-polarity tester. It can be used to test a de voltage.
of unknown polarity. When the'de voltage is positive, the green LED lights up.
When the de voltage is negative, the red LED lights up. What is the approximate
LED current if the dc input voltage is 50 Vand the series resistance is 2.2 k1?
Figure 5-23 (a) Polarity indicator; (b) continuity tester.
Rs
DC VOLTAGE
RED GREEN
CONTINUITY
TEST
(a)
Rs
9V
(q)
L
SOLUTION We will use a forward voltage of approximately 2 Vfor either
LED. With Eq. (5-13):
50V-2 V
Is= = 21.8 mA
2.2 ΚΩ
Example 5-13
1 MultiSim
Pigure 5-23b is a continuity tester. After you turn off all the power in a circuit
ander test,you'can use this circuit to check for the continuity of cables, connectors, and switches. How much LED current is there if the series resistance is
470 2?
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
SOLUTION. When the input terminals are shorted (continuity), the internal
9-Vbattery produces an LED current of:
1s=9V-2V = 14.9 mA
470 Ω
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-13 Using Fig. 5-23, what value series resistor
should be used to produce 21 mA of LED current?
Example 5-14
LEDs are often used to indicate the existence of ac voltages. Figure 5-24 shows an
ac voltage source driving an LED indicator. When there is ac voltage, there is LED
current on the positive half cycles. On the negative half cycles, the rectifier diode
turns on and protects the LED from too much reverse voltage. If the ac source
voltage is 20 Vrms and the series resistance is 680 n, what is the average LED
current? Also, calculate the approximate power dissipation in the series resistor.
Figure 5-24 Low ac voltage indicator.
R
w
Vac 2 本
LED RECTIFIER
SOLUTION The LED current is a rectified half-wave signal. The peak source
voltage is 1.414 × 20 V, which is approximately 28 V. Ignoring theLED voltage
drop, the approximate peak current is:
1s= 28V
089 U
41.2 mA
The average of the half-wave current through the LED is:
41.2 mA
Is = 13.1 mA
Ignore the diode drops in Fig. 5-24; this is equivalent to saying that
there is a short to ground on the right end of the series resistor. Then the power
dissipation in the series resistor equals the square of the source voltage divided
by the resistance:
P= (20V2 = 0.588 W
680 Ω
As the source voltage in Fig. 5-24 increases, the power dissipation in the series
resistor may increase to several watts. This is a disadvantage becaus use a high
wattage resistor is too bulky and wasteful for most applications.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 5-14 If the ac input voltage of Fig. 5-24 is 120 V
and the series resistance is 2 kN, find the average LED current and approximate
series resistor power dissipation.
169
170
Example 5-15
The circuit of Fig. 5-25 shows an LED indicator for the ac power line. The idea
is basically the same as in Fig. 5-24, except that we use a capacitor instead ra
resistor. If the capacitance is 0.68 µF, what is the average LED current?
Figure 5-25 High ac voltage indicator.
120 V
60 Hz
FUSE
C
naaa
SOLUTION Calculate the capacitive reactance:
1 1 =
Xc = 2nfC 2(60 Hz)(0.68 µF)
3.9 kn
Ignoring the LED voltage drop, the approximate peak LED current is:
170 V
Is= = 43.6 mA
3.9ΚΩ
The average LED current is:
Is = 43.6 mA – 13.9 mA
Whatadvantage does a series capacitor have over a series resistor? Since
the voltage and current in a capacitor are 90° out of phase, there is no power dissipation in the capacitor. If a 3.9-kn resistor were used instead of a capacitor, it
would have a power dissipation ofapproximately 3.69 W. Mostdesigners would
prefer to use a capacitor, since it's smaller and ideally produces no heat.
Example 5-16
What does the circuit of Fig. 5-26 do?
Figure 5-26 Blown-fuse indicator.
120 V
60 Hz
FUSE
V
SOLUTION This is a blown-fuse indicator. If the fuse is OK, the LED is off
because there is approximately zero voltage across the LED indicator. On the
other hand, if the fuse is open, some of the line voltage appears across the LED
indicator and the LED lights up.
Cha
5
GOOD TO KNOW
Schottky diodes are relatively highcurrent devices, capable of
switching quickly while providing
forward currents in the
neighborhood of 50 A! It is also
worth noting that Schottky diodes
normally have lower breakdown
voltage ratings as compared to
conventional pn junction rectifier
diodes.
5-9 The Schottky Diode
As frequency increases, the action of small-signal rectifier diodes begins to dete-,
riorate. They are no longer able to switch off fast enough to produce a welldefined half-wave signal. The solution to this problem is the Schottky diode.
Before describing this special-purpose diode, let us look at the problem that arises
with ordinary small-signal diodes.
Charge Storage
Figure 5-27a shows a small-signal diode, and Fig. 5-27b illustrates its energy bands..As you can see, conduction-band electrons have diffused across the junction and traveled into the p region before recombining (path A). Similarly, holes
have crossed the junction and traveled into the n region before recombination
occurs (path B). The greater the lifetime, the farther the charges can travel before recombination occurs.
For instance, if the lifetime equals 1 us, free electrons and holes exist for
an average of 1 us before recombination takes place. This allows the free electrons to penetrate deeply into the p region, where they remain temporarily stored
at the higher energy band. Similarly, the holes penetrate deeply into the n region,
where they are temporarily stored in the lower energy band.
The greater the forward current, the larger the number of charges that
have crossed the junction. The greater the lifetime, the deeper the penetration of
these charges and the longer the charges remain in the high and low energy bands.
The temporary storage of free electrons in the upper energy band and holes in the
lower energy band is referred to as charge storage.
Charge Storage Produces Reverse Current
When you try to switch a diode from on to off, charge storage creates a problem.
Why? Because if you suddenly reverse-bias a diode, the stored charges will flow
in the reverse direction for a while. The greater the lifetime, the longer these charges can contribute to reverse current.
For example, suppose a forward-biased diode is suddenly reversebiased, as shown in Fig. 5-28a. Then a large reverse current can exist for a while
because of the flow of stored charges in Fig. 5-28b. Until the stored charges either
cross the junction or recombine, the reverse current will continue.
Special-Purpose Diodes
Figure 5-27 Charge storage. (d) Forward bias creates stored charges; (b) stored charges
in high- and low-energy bands.
(a)
ENERGY
A
p
A
B
00000000000000
(b)
171
172
Figure 5-28 Stored charges allow a brief reverse current. (a) Sudden reversal of source
voltage; (b) flow of stored charges in reverse direction.
T-
(a)
ENERGY ELECTRON
FLOW
HOLE
000000000FLOW 00000000000000
(b)
Reverse Recovery Time
The time it takes to turn off a forward-biased diode is called the reverse recovery
time t. The conditions for measuring t vary from one manufacturer to the next.
As a guide, t is the time it takes for the reverse current to drop to 10 percent of.
the forward current.
For instance, the 1N4148 has a t, of 4 ns. If this diode has a forward current of 10 mA and it is suddenly reverse-biased, it will take approximately 4 ns for
the reverse current to decrease to 1 mA. Reverse recovery time is so short in
small-signal diodes that you don't even notice its effect at frequencies below
10 MHz or so. It's only when you get well above 10 MHz that you have to take tr
into, account.
Poor Rectification at High Frequencies
What effect does reverse recovery time have on rectification? Take a look at the
half-wave rectifier shown in Fig. 5-29a. At low frequencies the output is a halfwave rectified signal. As the frequency increases well into megahertz, however,
the output signal begins to deviate from the half-wave shape, as shown in
Fig. 5-29b. Some reverse conduction (called tails) is noticeable near the beginning of the reverse half cycle.
The problem is that the reverse recovery time has become a significant
part of the period, allowing conduction during the early part of the negative half
cycle. For instance, if t,4 ns and the period is 50 ns, the early part of the
reverse half cycle will have tails similar to those shown in Fig. 5-29b. As the
frequency continues to increase, the rectifier becomes useless.
Figure 5-29 Stored charges degrade rectifier behavior at high frequencies. (a) Rectifier
circuit with ordinary small-signal diode; (b) tails appear on negative, half cycles at higher
frequencies.
ORDINARY
1+
(b)
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
Eliminating Charge Storage
The solution to the problem of tails is a special-purpose device called a Schottky
diode. This kind of diode uses a metal such as gold, silver, or platinum on one side
of the junction and doped silicon (typically n-type) on the other side. Because of
the metal on one side of the junction, the Schottky diode has no depletion layer.
The lack of a depletion layer means that there are no stored charges at the junction.
When a Schottky diode is unbiased, free electrons on the n side are in
smaller orbits than are the free electrons on the metal side. This difference in orbit
size is called the Schottky barrier approximately 0.25 V. When the diode is
forward biased, free electrons on the n side can gain enough energy to travel in
larger orbits. Because of this, free electrons can cross the junction and enter the
metal, producing a large forward current. Since the metal has no holes, there is no
charge storage and no reverse recovery time.
Hot-Carrier Diode
The Schottky diode is sometimes called a hot-carrier diode. This name came
about as follows. Forward bias increases the energy of the electrons on the n side
to a higher level than that of the electrons on the metal side of the junction. This
increase in energy inspired the name hot carrier for the n-side electrons. As soon
as these high-energy electrons cross the junction, they fall into the metal, which
has a lower-energy conduction band.
High-Speed Turnoff
The lack of charge storage means that the Schottky diode can switch off faster than
an ordinary diode can. In fact, a Schottky diode can easily rectify frequencies above
300 MHz. When it is used in a circuit like Fig. 5-30a, the Schottky diode produces
a perfect half-wave signal like Fig. 5-30b even at frequencies above 300 MHz.
Figure 5-30a shows the schematic symbół of a Schottky diode. Notice
the cathode side. The lines look like a rectangular S, which stands for Schottky.
This is how you can remember the schematic symbol.
Applications
The most important application of Schottky diodes is in digital computers. The
speed of computers depends on how fasttheir diodes and transistors can turn on
and off. This is where the Schottky diode comes in. Because it has no charge storage, the Schottky diode has become the backbone of low-power Schottky TTLs, a
group of widely used digital devices.
Afinal point. Since a Schottky diode hasabarrier potential ofonly 0.25 V,
you may occasionally see it used in low-voltage bridge rectifiers because you subtract only 0.25 Vinstead of the usual 0.7 Vfor each diodewhen using the second ap- proximation. In a low-voltage supply, this lower diode voltage drop is an advantage
Figure 5-30 Schottky diodes eliminate tails at high frequencies. (a) Circu rcuit with
Schottky diode; (b) half-wave signal at 300 MHz.
SCHOTTKY
12
V
(9) (a)
173
Figure 5-31 Varactor. (a) Doped
regions are like capacitor plates separated
by a dielectric; (b) ac equivalent circuit;
(c) schematic symbol; (d) graph of
capacitance versus reverse voltage.
p
DEPLETION LAYER
سنم
(a)
C
(b)
(c)
(d)
Cт
5-10 The Varactor
The varactor (also called the voltage-variable capacitance, varicap, epicap, and
tuning diode) is widely used in television receivers, FM receivers, and other communications equipment because it can be used for electronic tuning.
Basic Idea
In Fig. 5-31a, the depletion layer is between the p region and the n region. The p
and n regions are like the plates of a capacitor, and the depletion layer is like the
dielectric. When a diode is reverse-biased, the width of the depletion layer increases with the reverse voltage. Since the depletion layer gets wider with more
reverse voltage, the capacitance becomes smaller. It's as though you moved apart
the plates of a capacitor. The key idea is that capacitance is controlled by reverse
voltage.
Equivalent Circuit and Symbol
Figure 5-31b shows the ac equivalent circuit for a reverse-biased diode. In other
words, as far as an ac signal is concerned, the varactor acts the same as a variable
capacitance. Figure 5-31c shows the schematic symbol for a varactor. The inclusion of a capacitor in series with the diode is a reminder that a varactor is a device
that has been optimized for its variable-capacitance properties..
Capacitance Decreases at Higher Reverse Voltages
Figure 5-31d shows how the capacitance varies with reverse voltage. This graphn
shows that the capacitance gets smaller when the reverse voltage gets larger. The
really important idea here is that reverse de voltage controls capacitance.
How is a varactor used? It is connected in parallel with an inductor to
form a parallel resonant circuit. This circuit has only one frequency at which maximum impedance occurs. This frequency is called the resonant frequency. If the dc
reverse voltage to the varactor is changed, the resonant frequency is also changed.
This is the principle behind electronic tuning of a radio station, a TV channel, and
so on.
174
Varactor Characteristics
and
Because the capacitance is voltage-controlled, varactors have replaced mechanically tuned capacitors in many applications such as television receivers
automobile radios. Data sheets for varactors list a reference value of capacitance
measured at a specific reverse voltage, typically-3V to-4 V. Figure 5-32 shows
a partial data sheet for a MV209 varactor diode. It lists a reference capacitance
C, of 29 pF at -3 V.
In addition to providing the reference value of capacitance, data sheets
normally list a capacitance ratio, Cr, or tuning range associated with a voltage
range. For example, along with the reference value of 29 pF, the data sheet of a
MV209 shows a minimum capacitance ratio of 5:1 for a voltage range of -3 Vto
-25 V. This means that the capacitance, or tuning range, decreases from 29 to 6 pF
when the voltage varies from -3 V to-25 V.
Thetuning range of a varactor depends on the doping level. For instan
stance,
Fig. 5-33a shows the doping profile for an abrupt-junction diode (the th ordinary
type of diode). The profile shows that the doping is uniform on both sides of the
junction. The tuning range of an abrupt-junction diode is betw
ween 3:1 and 4:1.
Chapter 5
Figure 5-32 MV209 Partial Data Sheet. (Copyright of Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC. Used by Permission.)
Ch. Diode Capacitance
VR = 3.0 Vdc, f = 1.0 MHz
pF
Q, Figure of Merit
VR = 3.0 Vdc
f = 50 MHz
CR. Capacitance Ratio
C3/C25
f= 1.0 MHz (Note 1)
Device Min Nom Max Min Min Max
MMBV109LT1, MV209 26 29 32 200 5.0 6.5
1. Ca is the ratio of C measured at 3 Vdc divided by C measured at 25 Vdc.
Special-Purpose Diodes
40
36
-pl 7. СAРACITANCEСT
2
க
2
1.0 MHz
A= 25°C
4
1 3 10 30
VR REVERSE VOLTAGE (VOLTS)
DIODE CAPACITANCE
100
Figure 5-33 Doping profiles. (a) Abrupt junction; (b) hyperabrupt junction.
DOPING
LEVEL
DOPING
LEVEL
U d
DISTANCE
FROM
JUNCTION
(a)
d
(9)
DISTANCE
FROM
JUNCTION
To get larger tuning ranges, some varad nges, somevaractors have a hyperabruptjunction,
one whose doping profile looks ks like Fig. 5-33b. This profile tells lis us that the
doping level increases as we appro pproach the junction. The heavier dop doping produces
a narrower depletion layer and a larger capacitance. Furthermore, re, changes in re
verse voltage have more pronounced effects on capacitance. Ahyperabrupt varactor has a tuning range of about 10:1, enough to tune an AM radio through its frequency range of 535 to 1605 kHz. (Note: You need a 10:1 range because the
resonant frequency is inversely proportional to the square root of capacitance.)
175
Example 5-17
What does the circuit of Fig. 5-34a do?
SOLUTION As mentioned-in Chap. 1, a transistor is a semiconductor device
that acts like a current source. In Fig. 5-34a, the transistor pumps a fixed number
of milliamperes into the resonant LC tank circuit. A negative de voltage reversebiases the varactor. By varying this de control voltage, we can vary the resonant
frequency of the LC circuit.
As far as the ac signal is concerned, we can use the equivalent circuit
shown in Fig. 5-34b. The coupling capacitor acts like a short circuit. An ac current source drives a resonant LCtank circuit. Thevaractor acts like variable capacitance, which means that we can change the resonant frequency by changing
the de control voltage. This is the basic idea behind the tuning of radio and television receivers.
Figure 5-34 Varactors can tune resonant circuits. (a) Transistor (current source) drives
tuned LCtank; (b) ac equivalent circuit.
TRANSISTOR
CIRCUIT
(a)
(b)
-Vcontrol
<R
COUOUPLING
0OUTPUT
T C
LVAVARIABLE
T CAPACITANCE
176
5-11 Other Diodes
Besides the special-purpose diodes discussed so far, there are others you sh
nould
know about. Because they are so specialized, only a brief description follows.
Varistors
Lightning, power-line faults, and transients can pollute the ac
ac line voltage by
superimposing dips and spikes on the normal 120 Vrms. Dips are severe voltage
drops lasting microseconds or less. Spikes are very brief overvoltages up to 2000\
A
Chapter 5
Figure 5-35
regulator diode.
(a) Varistor protects primary from ac linetransients; (b) current120 V ac
V130LA2
2
(a)
+100 V
(b(
1 to 49 k2
1N5305
AL
Special-Purpose Diodes
or more. In some equipment, filters are used between the power line m and the pri
mary of the transformer to eliminate the problems caused by ac line ne transients.
One of the devices used for line filtering is the varistor (also Iso called a
transient suppressor). This semiconductor device is like two back-to-back ack zener
diodes with a high breakdown voltage in both directions. Varistors are coCOmmercially available with breakdown voltages from 10 to 1000 V. They can handle
peak transient currents in the hundreds or thousands of amperes.
For instance, a V130LA2 is a varistor with a breakdown voltage of 184 V
(equivalent to 130 Vrms) and a peak current rating of 400 A. Connect one of these
across the primary winding as shown in Fig. 5-35a, and you don't have to worry
about spikes. The varistor will clip all spikes at the 184-V level and protect your
power supply.
Current-Regulator Diodes
These are diodes that work in a way exactly opposite to the way zener diodes
work. Instead of holding the voltage constant, these diodes hold the current constant, Known as current-regulator diodes (orconstant-current diodes), these devices keep the current through them fixed when the voltage changes. For example,
the 1N5305 is a constant-current diode with a typical current of 2 mA over a voltage range of 2 to 100 V. Figure 5-35b shows the schematic symbol of a currentregulator diode. In Fig. 5-35b, the diode will hold the load current constant
2 mAeven though the load resistance is varied from 1 to 49 kN.
Step-Recovery Diodes
at
The step-recovery diode has the unusual doping profile shown in Fig. 5-36а.
This graph indicates that the density of carriers decreases near the junction. This
unusual distribution of carriers causes a phenomenon called reverse snap-off.
Figure 5-36b shows the schematic symbol for a step-recovery diode.
During the positive half cycle, the diode conducts like any silicon diode. But
during the negative half cycle, reverse current exists for a while because of the
stored charges, and then suddenly drops to zero.
177
178
Figure 5-36 Step-recovery ddiode. (a) Doping profile shows less doping near junction;
(b) circuit rectifying an ac input sign snai; (c) snap-off produces a positive voltage step rich in
harmonics.
DOPING LEVEL
10 MHz
STEP-RECOVERY
DIODE
V
)a)
DISTANCE
(b)
0.1 us
(0)
Figure 5-36c shows the output voltage. It's as though the diode conduct
reverse current for
 a while, and then suddenly snaps open. This is why the steprecovery diode is also known as a snap diode. The sudden step in current is rich
in harmonics and can be filtered to produce
 a sine wave of a higher frequency.
(Harmonics are multiples of the input frequency like 2fin, 3fin, and 4fin.)Because
of this, step-recovery diodes are useful in frequency multipliers, circuits whose
output frequency is a multiple of the input frequency.
Back Diodes
Zener diodes normally have breakdown voltages greater than 2.V. By increasing
the doping level, we cas get the zener effect to occur near zero. Forward conduction still occurs around 0.7 V, but now reverse conduction (breakdown) starts at
approximately -0.1 V. A diode with a graph like Fig. 5-37a is called a back diode because it
conducts better in the reverse than in the forward direction. Figure 5-34b shows a
sine wave with a peak of 0.5
V driving a back diode and a load resistor. (Notice
that the zener symbol is used for the back diode.) The 0.5
V is not enough to turn
on the diode in the forward direction, but it is enough to break down the diode in
the reverse direction. For this reason, the output is a half-wave signal with a peak
of 0.4 V, as shown in Fig. 5-37b.
Back diodes are occasionally used to rectify weak signals with peak amplitudes between 0.1 and 0.7 V.
Tunnel Diodes
By increasing the doping level of a back diode, we can get breakdown to occur
at
0 V. Furthermore, the heavier doping distorts the forward curve, as shown in
Fig. 5-38a. Adiode with this graph is called a tunnel diode.
Figure 5-38b shows the schematic symbol for a tunnel diode. This type
of diode exhibits a phenomenon known as negative resistance. This means that
Figure 5-37
signal.
Back diode. (a) Breakdown occúrs at-0.1 V; (b) circuit rectifying weak ac
BACK
-0.1
0.7
0.5-V
PEAK
AAA
(a)
DIODE
0.4
V
PEAK
(b)
구
Chapter 5
Special-Purpose Diodes
Figure 5-38 Tunnel diode. (a) Breakdown occurs at 0V; (b) schematic symbol.
Ip
VpVv
(a)
(9)
an increase in forward voltage produces a decrease in forward current, at least
over the part of the graph between Vp and Vy. The negative resistance of tunnel
diodes is useful in high-frequency circuits called oscillators. These circuits are
able to generate a sinusoidal signal, similar to that produced by an ac generator.
But unlike the ac generator that converts mechanical energy to a sinusoidal signal,
an oscillator converts dc energy to a sinusoidal signal. Later chapters will show
youhow to build oscillators.
PIN Diodes
A PIN diode is a semiconductor device that operates as a variable resistor at RF
and microwave frequencies. Figure 5-39a shows its construction. It consists of an
intrinsic (pure) semiconductor material sandwiched between p-type and n-type
materials. Figure 5-39b shows the schematic symbol for the PIN diode.
When the diode is forward biased, it acts like a current-controlled resistance. Figure 5-39c shows how the PIN diode's series resistance Rs decreases as
its forward current increases. When reverse biased, the PIN diode acts like a fixed
capacitor. The PIN diode is widely used in RF and microwave modulator circuits.
Table of Devices
Summary Table 5-1 lists all the special-purpose devices in this chapter. The zener
diode is useful in voltage regulators, the LED as a dc or an ac indicator, the sevensegment indicator in measuring instruments, and so on.You should study the table
and remember the ideas it contains.
Figure 5-39 PIN diode. (o) Construction; (b) schematic symbol; (c) series resistance.
P or SERIES RESISTANCE, Sy
(a)
FORWARD ENT, IF
(b)
179
Summary Table 5–1
Device
Zener diode
Special-Purpose
Key Idea
Operates in breakdown region
Application
Voltage regulators
LED Emits noncoherent light.
Seven-segment indicator Can display numbers
Photodiode Light produces minority carriers
Optocoupler
Laser diode
Schottky diode
Combines LED and photodiode
Emits coherent light
DC or ac indicators
Measuring instruments
Light detectors
Input/output isolators
CD/DVD players, broadband communications
Has no charge storage High-frequency rectifiers (300 MHz)
Varactor Acts like variable capacitance TVand receiver tuners
Varistor Breaks down both ways Line-spike protectors
Current-regulator diode Holds current constant Current regulators
Step-recovery diode Snaps off during reverse conduction Frequency multipliers
Back diode
Tunnel diode
PIN diode
Conducts better in reverse
Has a negative-resistance region
Controfled resistance
High-frequency oscillators
Microwave communications
Weak-signal rectifiers
Summary
SEC. 5-1 THE ZENER DIODE
This is a special diode optimized for
operation in the breakdown region. Its
main use is in voltage regulators-cirçuits
that hold the load voltage constant.
Ideally, a reverse-biased zener diode is like
perfect battery. To á second
approximation, it has a bulk resistance
that produces a small additional voltage.
SEC. 5-2 THE LOADÈD ZENER
REGULATOR
When a zener diode is in parallel with а
load resistor, the current through the
current-limiting ing resistor e'quals the sum of
the zener current and the load current.
The process for analyzing a zener
regulator consists of finding the series
current, load current, and zener current
(in that order).
SEC. 5-3 SECOND
APPROXIMATION OF A
ZENER DIODE
In the second approximation, we visualize
a zener diode asabattery of V2 and a
series resistance of R2 The current
through R2 produces an.additional
voltage across the diode, but this
voltage is usually small. You need zener
resistance in order to calculate ripple
reduction.
SEC. 5-4 ZENER DROP-OUT
POINT
A zener regulator will fail to regulate if
the zener diode comes out of breakdown.
The worst-case conditions occur for
minimum source voltage, maxir um series
resistance, and minimum load resistance.
For the zener regulator to work properly
under all operating conditions, there must
be zener current under the worst-case
conditions.
180 Chapter 5
SEC. 5-5 READING A DATA SHEET
The most important quantities on the
data sheet of zener diodes are the zener
voltage, the maximum power rating, the
maximum current rating, and the
tolerance. Designers also need the zener
resistance, the derating factor, and a few
other items.
SEC. 5-6 TROUBLESHOOTING
Troubleshooting is an art and a science.
Because of this, you can learn only so
much from a book. The rest has to be
learned from direct experience with
circuits in trouble. Because
troubleshooting is an art, you have to ask
"What if?".often and feel your way to a
solution.
SEC. 5-7 LOAD LINES
The intersection ofthe load line and the
zener diode graph is the Qpoint. When
the source voltage changes, a different
load line appears with a different Qpoint.
Aithough the two O points may have
different currents, the voltages are almost
identical. This is a visual demonstration of
voltage regulation.
SEC. 5-8 OPTOELECTRONIC
DEVICES
The LED is widely used as an indicator on
instruments, calculators, and other
electronic equipment. By combining seven
LEDs in a package, we get a sevensegment indicator. Another important
optoelectronic device is the optocoupler,
which allows us to couple a signal
between two isolated circuits.
SEC. 5-9 THE SCHOTTKY DIODE
The reverse recovery time is the time it
takes a diode to shut off after it is
suddenly switched from forward to
reverse bias. This time may be only a few
nanoseconds, but it places a limit on how
high the frequency can be in a rectifier
circuit. The Schottky diode is a speciał
diode with aimost zero reverse recovery
time. Because of this, the Schottky diode
is useful at high frequencies wherre short
switching times are needed.
SEC. 5-10 THE VARACTOR
The width of the depletion layer increases
with the reverse voltage. This is why the
capacitance of a varactor can be
controlled by the reverse voltage. A
common application is remote tuning of
radio and television sets.
SEC. 5-11 OTHER DIODES
Varistors are useful as transient
suppressors. Constant-current diodes hold
the current, rather than the voltage,
constant. Step-recovery diodes snap off
and produce a step voltage that is rich in
harmonics. Back diodes conduct better in
the reverse direction than in the forward
direction. Tunnel diodes exhibit negative
resistance, which can be used in highfrequency oscillators. PIN diodes use a
forward-biased control currerit to change
its resistance in RFand microwave
communication circuits.
Derivations
(5-3) Series current: (5-6) Zener current:
SI
Rs
+s
Vz
1s VsVz
Sy
(5-4} Load voltage:
woA+
Vz V1=AZ
(5-5) Load current:
1
Special-Purpose Diodes
두
Z 7-5121
(5-7) Change in load voltage:
(5-8) Output ripple:
Rs
RL
VAii) O VAlout)
Rz
T
AVL = IZRZ
VRlout)VRin) S
181
(5-9) 9 Maximum series resistance:
As(max)
+simin) ww
Vz L(min
RS(max)
Vs(min)
Vz
R(min).
(5-10) Maximum series resistance:
ASimax)
+Vs(min) ww
Vz
Student Assignments
ILimax)
RSimax)
Vs(min)-Vz
L(max)
(5-1 5-13) LED current:
Rs
+Vs Oww
Vs-Vo
Is. Rs
1. What is true about the breakdown
voltage in a zener diode?
a. It decreases when current
increases.
b. It destroys the diode.
c. It equals the current times the
resistance.
d. It is approximately constant.
2. Which of these is the best
description of a zener diode?
a. It is a rectifier diode.
b. It is a constant-voltage device.
c. It is a constant-current device..
d. It works in the forward region.
3. A zener diode
a. Is a battery
b. Has a constant voltage in the
breakdown region
c. Has a barrier potential of 1 V
d. Is forward biased
4. The voltage across the zener
resistance is usually
a. Small
b. Large
c. Measured in volts
d. Subtracted from the breakdown
voltage
5. If the series resistance increases in
an unloaded zener regulator, the
c. Load current
d. None of these
zener current
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Equals the voltage divided by the
resistance
6. In the second approximation, the
total voltage across the zener
diode is the sum ofthe
breakdown voltage and the
voltage across the
a. Source
b. Series resistor
c. Zener resistance
d.. Zener diode
7. The load voltage is approximately
constant when a zener diode is
a. Forward biased
b. Reverse biased
c. Operating in the breakdown region
d. Unbiased
8. In a loaded zener regulator, which
is the largest current?
a. Series current
b. Zener current
9. If the load resistance increases in
a zener regulator, the zener
current
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
C. Increases
d. Equals the source voltage divided
by the series resistance
10. If the load resistance decreases in
a zener regulator, the series
current
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Equals the source voltage divided
by the series resistance
11. When the source voltage increases
in a zener regulator, which of
these currents remains
approximately constant?
a. Series current
b. Zener current
c. Load current
d. Total current
182
Chapter 5
12. If the zener diode in a zener
regulator is connected with the
wrong polarity, the load voltage
will be closest to
a. 0.7 V
b. 10 V
c. 14V
d. 18 V
temperature
a. It will immediately be destroyed
b. You must decrease its power
rating
c. Higher forward voltage and lower 26. The device to use for rectifying a
breakdown voltage weak ac signal is a
d. Higher forward voltage and higher
breakdown voltage
19. To display the digit 0 in a sevensegment indicator,
a. Cmust be off
b. .G must be off
13. When a zener diode is operating Fmust be on
above its power-rated
C.
d. All segments must be lighted
20. A photodiode is normally
a. Forward biased
c. You must increase its power rating
d. It will not be affected
b. Reverse biased
c. Neither forward nor reverse biased
d. Emitting light
14. Which of the following will not
indicate a zener diode's
breakdown voltage?
21. When the light decreases, the
reverse minority-carrier current in.
a. in-circuit voltage drop
a photodiode
b. Curve tracer
a. Decreasės
c. Reverse-bias test circuit.
b. Increases
d.. DMM
c. Is unaffected
d. Reverses direction
15. At high frequencies, ordinary
diodes don't work properly
because of
a. Forward bias
b. Reverse bias
c. Breakdown
d. Charge storage
16. The capacitance of a varactor
diode increases when the reverse
voltage across it
a. Decreases
b. Inecreases
c. Breaks down
d. Stores charges
17. Breakdown does not destroy а
zener diode, provided the zener
current is less than the
a. Breakdown voltage
b. Zener test current
c. Maximum zener current rating
d. Barrier potential
18. As compared to a silicon rectifier diode, an LED has a
a. Lower forward voltage and lower
breakdown voltage
b. Lowerforward voltage and higher
breakdown voltage
22. The device associated with
voltage-controlled capacitance
is a
a. Light-emitting diode
b. Photodiode
c. Varactor diode
d. Zener diode
23. If the depletion layer width
decreases, the capacitance
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Is variable
24. When the reverse voltage
decreases, the capacitance
a.. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Has more bandwidth
25. Thevaractor is usually
a. Forward biased
b. Reverse biased
c. Unbiased
d. Operated in the breakdown
region
a. Zener diode
b. Light-emitting diode
c. Varistor
d. Back diode
27. Which of the following
has a negative-resistance
region?
a. Tunnel diode
b. Step-recovery diode
c. Schottky diode
d. Optocoupler
28. A blown-fuse indicator
uses a
a. Zener diode
9. Constant-current diode
c. Light-emitting diode
d. PIN diode
29. To isolate an.output circuit from
an input circuit, which is the
device to use?
a. Back diode
b. Optocoupler
c. Seven-segment indicator
d. Tunnel diode
30. The diode with a forward voltage
drop of approximately 0.25 V
is the
a. Step-reçovery diode
b. Schottky diode
c. Back diode
d. Constant-current diode
31. For typical operation, you need to
use reverse bias with a
a. Zener diode
b. Photodiode
c. Varactor
d. All of the above
32. As the forward current through
a PIN diode decreases, its.
resistance
a. Increases
b. Decreases
c. Remains constant
d. Cannot be determined
Special-Purpose Diodes 183
Problems
SEC. 5-1 THE ZENER DIODE
5-1mitisim An unloaded zener regulator has a source
voltage of 24 V, a series resistance of 470.2, and a zener
voltage of 15 V. What is the zener current?
5-2
5-3
If the source voltage in Prob. 5-1 varies from 24 to 40 V,
what is the maximum zener current?
If the series resistor of Prob. 5-1 has a tolerance of±5
percent, what is the maximum zener current?
SEC. 5-2 THE LOADED ZENER REGULATOR
5-4 ll1 MaltiSim If the zener diode is disconnected in
Fig. 5-40, what is the load voltage?
Figure 5-40
POWER
SUPPLY
242 V
470 2
w
15 V 1.5 k2
5-5aitiSim Calculate ali three currents in Fig. 5-40.
5-6 Assuming a tölerance of ±5 percent in both resistors of
Fig. 5-40, what is the maximum zener current?
5-7 Suppose the supply ply voltage of Fig. 5-2 5-40 can vary from
24 to 40 V.What is the maximum zener current?
5-8 The zener diode of Fig. 5-40 is replaced with a 1N9638.
What are the load yoltage and the zener current?
5-9 Draw the schematic diagram of a zener regulator with a
supply voltage of 20 V, a series resistance of 330 2, a
zener voltage of 12 V, and a load resistance of 1 k2.
What are the load voltage and the zener current?
SEC. 5-3 SECOND APPROXIMATION
OF A ZENER DIODE
5-10 The zener diode of Fig. 5-40 has a zener resistance of
14 2. if the power supply has a ripple of 1 Vpp,what is.
the ripple across the load resistor?
5-11 During the day, the ac line voltage changes. This causes
the unregulated 24-V output of the power supply to vary
from 21.5 to 25 V. If the zener resistance is 14 $2, what is
the voltage change over the foregoing range?.
SEC. 5-4 ZENER DROP-OUT POINT
5-12 Assume the supply voltage of Fig. 5-40 decreases from
24 to 0 V. At some point along the way, the zener diode
will stop regulating. Find the supply voltage where
regulation is lost.
5-13 In Fig. 5-40, the unregulated voltage outut of the power
supply may vary from 20 to 26 V and the theload resistance
may vary from 500 to 1.5 k2. Will the zen zeer regulator
fail under these conditions? If so, what valuesshould the
series resistance be?
5-14 The unregulated voltage. in Fig. 5-40 mayvary.
ry from 18 to
25 V, and the load current may vary from 1 to 25 mA.
Will the zener regulator stop regulating under these
conditions? If so, what is the maximum value for Rs?
5-15 What is the minimum load resistance that may be used in
Fig. 5-40 without losing zener regulation?
SEC. 5-5 READING A DATA SHEET
5-16 A zener diode has a voltage of 10 Vand a current of
20 mA. What is the power dissipation?
5-17 A 1N968 has 5 mAthrough it.What is the power?
5-18 What is the power dissipation in the resistors and zener
diode of Fig. 5-40?
5-19 The zener diode of Fig. 5-40 is a 1N4744A. What is the
minimum zener voltage? The maximum?
5-20 If the lead temperature of a v4736A zener diode rises to
100°C, what is the diode's new power rating?
SEC. 5-6 TROUBLESHOOTING
5-21 In Fig. 5-40, what is the load voltage for each of these
conditions?
a. Zener diode shorted
b. Zener diode open
c. Series resistor open
d. Load resistor shorted
5-22 If you measure approximately 18.3V for the load voltage
of Fig. 5-40, what do you think the trouble is?
5-23 You measure 24 V across the load of Fig. 5-40. An
5-24
ohmmeter indicates the zener diode is open. Before
replacing the zener diode, what should you check for?
In Fig. 5-41, the LED does not light. Which of the
following are possible troubles?
a. V130LA2 is open.
b. Ground between two left bridge diodes is open.
c. Filter capacitor is open.
d. Filter capacitor is shorted.
e. 1N5314 is open.
f. 1N5314 is shorted.
184
Chapter 5
Figure 5-41
V130LA2
115 V acf
1000 /F
1N5314
TIL221 1N753
SEC. 5-8 OPTOELECTR RONIC DEVICES
5-25 Huitisia What is the current through the LED of
Figure 5-42
Fig. 5-42? 2.2 k2
5-26 If the supply voltage of Fig. 5-42 increases to 40 V, what
is the LED current? POWER
SUPPLY
15 V
5-27 If the resistor is decreased to 1 kn, what is the LED
current in Fig. 5-42?
5-28 The resistor of Fig. 5-42 is decreased until the LED current equals 13 mA. What is the value of the resistance?
Critical Thinking
5-29. The zener diode ofFig.5-40 has a zener resistance of
14 .What is the load voltage if you include Rz in your
calculations?
5-30 The zener diode of Fig. 5-40 is a 1 N4744A. If the loap
resistance varies from 1 to 10 k, what is the minimum
load voltage? The maximum load voltage? (Use the
second approximation.)
5-31 Design a zener regulator to meet these specifications:
Load voltage is 6.8 V, source voltage is 20 V, and load
5-32
5-33
current is 30 mA.
ATIL312 is a seven-segment indicator. Each segment has
a voltage drop between 1.5 and 2 V at 20 mA. The suppiy
voltage is +5 V. Design a seven-segment display circuit
controlled by on-off switches that has a maximum
current drain of 140 mA.
The secondary voltage of Fig. 5-41 is 12.6 V rms when the
line voltage is 115 Vrms. During the day the power line
varies by ±10 percent. The resistors have tolerances of
±5 percent. The 1N4733A has a tolerance of ±5 percent
and azener resistance of 7 N. if R2 equals 560 ,what is
the maximum possible value ofthe zener current at any
instant during day?
5-34 In Fig. 5-41, the secondary voltage is 12.6 V rms, and
diode drops are 0.7 Veach. The 1N5314 is a constantcurrent diode with a current of 4.7 mA. The LED current is
15.6 mA, and the zener current is 21.7 mA. The filter
capacitor has a tolerance of ±20 percent. What is the.
maximum peak-to-peak ripple?
5-35 Figure 5-43 shows part of a bicycle lighting system. The
diodes are Schottky diodes. Use the second
approximation to calculate the voitage across the filter
capacitor.
Figure 5-43
6 Vac (GEN
1000 LF
#27 BULB
Special- al-Purpose Diodes 185
Troubleshooting
iNt MwttiSi The troubleshooting table shown in Fig. 5-44 lists
the voltage values at each respective circuit point and the
condition of the diode D₁, for circuit troubles 7, through Ts.The
first row displays what values would be found under normal
operating conditions.
5-36 Find Troubles 1 to 4 in Fig. 5-44.
5-37 Find Troubles 5 to 8 in Fig. 5-44.
Figure 5-44 Troubleshooting
+18 V
A
VA VB Vc. VD
OK 18 10.3 10.3 10.3 OK
71 18
2<
Rs
270 $2
C
T2
31
14.2
0
이 이 0
OK
14.2 OK
В 13 18 14.2 14.2 14.2
D
T4 18 18 18 18
D
VL
1N758 1 ΚΩ
75
0 0
이
0
OK
E
T6 18 10.5 10.5 10.5 OK
T7 18 14.2 14.2 14.2 OK
T8 18 이
0 0 0
Job Interview Questions
1. Draw a zener regulator. Then explain to me how it works
and what its purpose is.
2. I have a power supply that produces an output of 25 V de.
Iwant three regulated outputs of approximately 15 V, 15.7 V,
and 16.4 V. Show me a circuit that will produce these
outputs.
3. I have a zener regulator that stops regulating during the
day. The ac line voltage in my area varies from 105 to 125 V
rms. Also, the load resistance on the zener regulator varies
from 100 2 to 1 kN. Tell me some of the possible reasons
why the zener regulator fails during the day.
4. This morning, I was breadboarding an
an LED indicator.
After I connected the LED and turned on the power, the
LED did not light up. I checked the LED and discovered
that it was open. I tried another LED and got the same
results. Tell me some of the possible reasons why this
happened.
5. I have heard that a varactor can be used to tune a television
receiver. Tell me thebasic idea of how it tunes a resonant
circuit.
6. Whywould an optocoupler be used in an electronic circuit?
7. Given a standard plastic-dome LED package, name two
ways to identify the cathode.
8. Explain the differences, if any, between arectifier diode and
a Schottky diode.
9. Draw a circuit like Fig. 5-4a, except replace the dc source by
an ac source with a peak value of 40 V. Draw the graph of
output voltage for a zener voltage of 10 V.
186
Chapter 5
Self-Test Answers
1. d
12. a 23. c
2. b 13. b 24. c
3. b 14. d 25.
4. a 15. d 26.
p
१
5. a 16. a 27. a
6. c 17. с 28.
7. C 18.
3
29.
q
8. a 19. b 30.b
9. C 20. b 31.
10. b 21. a 32. a
11. C 22. C
Practice Problem Answers
5-1 Is = 24.4 mA 5-7 V = 10.1 V 5-11 R5 (mak) = 495 0
5-3 Is 18.5 mA; 5-8 VR (out)=94 mVpp 5-13 Rς = 330 Ω
= 10 mA;
Iz = 8.5 mA 5-10 Rs (max)65. 5-14 ls = 27 mA;
P= 7.2W 5-5 VRL 8 Vpp. square-wave
Special-Purpose Diodes 187
chapt apter 6Bipolar Junction
Transistors
In 1951, William Schockley invented the first junction transistor, a
semiconductor device that can amplify (enlarge) electronic signals
such as radio and television signals. The transistor has led to many
other semiconductor inventions including the integrated circuit (IC),
a small device that contains thousands of miniaturized transistors.
Because of the IC, modern computers and other electronic miracles
are possible.
This chapter introduces the bipolar junction transistor (BJT),
the kind that uses both free electrons and holes. The word bipolar is
an abbreviation for "two polarities." Following chapters will explore
how this BJT can be used as an amplifier and as a switch.
Chapter Outline
6-1 The Unbiased Transistor
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be
able to:
Describe the relationships among the
base, emitter, and collector currents
ofabipolar junction transistor.
Draw a diagram ofthe CE circuit and
label each terminal, voltage, and
resistanceе.
Draw a hypothetical base curve and
a set of coliector curves, labeling
both axes.
Label the three regions of operation
on a bipolar junction transistor
collector curve.
Calculate the respective CE transistor
current and voltage values using the
ideal transistor and the second
6-2 The Biased Transistor
6-3 Transistor Currents
6-4 The CE Connection
6-5 The Base Curve
6-6 Collector Curves
6-7 Transistór Approximations
6-8 Reading Data Sheets
6-9
Surface-Mount Transistors
List several bipolar junction transistor
ratings that might be used by a
technician.
6-10 Troubleshooting
transistor approximation.
Vocabulary
active region current gain
base cutoff region
bipolar junction transistor
(BJT)
breakdown region
collector
collector diode
common emitter. (CE)
dc alpha
dcbeta
emitter
emitter diode
h parameters
heat sink
integrated circuit (IC)
junction transistor
power transistors
saturation region
small-signal transistors
surface-mount transistors
switching circuit
thermal resistance
681
GOOD TO KNOW
During the afternoon of
December 23, 1947, Walter H.
Brattain and John Bardeen
demonstrated the amplifying action
of the first transistor at the Bell
Telephone Laboratories. The first
transistor was called a point-.
contact transistor, which was the
predecessor to the junction
transistor invented by Schockley.
GOOD TO KNOW.
The transistor in Fig. 6-1 is
sometimes referred to as a bipolor
junction transistor, or BJT. However,
most people in the electronics
industry still use the word
transistor, with the understanding
that a bipolar junction transistor is
meant.
6-1 The Unbiased Transistor
A transistor has three doped regions, as shown in Fig. 6-1. The bottom region
is called the emitter, the middle region is the base, and the top region is the
collector, In an actual transistor, the base region is much thinner as compared to
the collector and emitter regions. The transistor of Fig. 6-1 is an npn device because there is a p region between two n regions. Recall that the majority carriers
are free electrons in n-type material and holes in p-type material.
Transistors are also manufactured as pnp devices. Apnptransistor has an
n region between two p regions. To avoid confusion between the npn and the puр
transistors, our early discussions will focus on the npn transistor.
Doping Levels
In Fig. 6-1, the emitter is heavily doped. On the other hand, the base is lightly
doped. The doping level of the collector is intermediate, between the heavy doping of the emitter and the light doping of the base. The collector is physically the
largest of the three regions.
Emitter and Collector Diodes
Thetransistor of Fig. 6-1 has two junctions: one between the emitter and the base,
and another between the collector and the base. Because of this, a transistor is like
two.back-to-back diodes. The lower diode is called the emitter-base diode, or simply the emitter diode. The upper diode is called the collector-base diode, or the
collector diode.
Before and After Diffusion
Figure 6-1 shows the transistor regions before diffusion has occurred. As discussed in Chap. 2, free electrons in the n region will diffuse across the junction
and recombine with the holes in the p region. Visualize the free electrons in each
n region crossing the junction and recombining with holes.
The result is two depletion layers, as shown in Fig. 6-2. For each of these
depletion layers, the barrier potential is approximately 0.7 V at 25°C for a silicon
transistor (0.3 V at 25°C for a germanium transistor). As before, we emphasize
silicon devices because they are now more widely used than germanium devices.
Figure 6-1 Structure of a transistor.
190
N
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
A A
Θ
+++i
Θ
கு
COLLECTOR
D++*
+D+
あD
D+++
+++
Θ
+++
BASE
MITTER
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Figure 6-2 Depletion layers.
2
A
Θ
ΘDI
 I
Θ Θ Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ Θ + Ο
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ
Θ Θ
Θ
Θ
Ο
Θ
σ
Θ
Θ
P)IC
Θ
D+
D+
14Ο
Θ
Θ
DEPLETION
LAYER
DEPLETION
LAYER
6-2 The Biased Transistor
An unbiased transistor is like two back-to-back diodes. Each diode has a barrier
potential of approximately 0.7 V.When you connect external voltage sources to.
the transistor, you will get currents through the different parts of the transistor.
Emitter Electrons
Figure 6-3 shows a biased transistor. The minus signs represent free electrons:
Theheavily doped emitter has the following job: to emit or inject its free electrons
into the base. The lightly doped base also has a well-defined purpose: to pass
emitter-injected electrons on to the collector. The collector is so named because it
collects or gathers most of the electrons from the base.
Figure 6-3 is the usual way to bias a transistor. The left source VBB of
Fig. 6-3 forward-biases the emitter diode, and the right source Vccreverse-biases
the collector diode. Although other biasing methods are possible, forward-biasing
the emitter diode and reverse-biasing the collector diode produce the most useful
results.
Figure 6-3 Biased transistor.
Rg
VSB VBE
น
d
u
VCE
Rc
VCC
191
GOOD TO KNOW
In a transistor, the emitter-base
depletion layer is narrower than
the collector-base depletion layer.
The reason can be attributed to
the different doping levels of the
emitter and collector regions. With
much heavier doping in the emitter.
region, the penetration into then
material is minimal because of the
availability of many more freе
electrons. However, on the collector
side, fewer free electrons are
available and the depletion layer
must penetrate more deeply in
order to set up the barrier
potential.
Base Electrons
At the instant that forward bias is applied to the emitter diode ofFig. 6-3, the electrons in the emitter have not yet entered the base region. If VBB is greater than the
emitter-base barrier potential in Fig. 6-3, emitter electrons will enter the base
region, as shown in Fig. 6-4. Theoretically, these free electrons can flow in either
of two directions. First, they can flow to the left and out of the base, passing
through RB on the way to the positive source terminal. Second, the free electrons
can flow into the collector.
Which way will the free electróns go?Most will continue on to the collector. Why? Two reasons: the base is lightly doped and very thin. The light doping means that the free electrons have a long lifetime in the base region. The very
thin base means that the free electrons have only a short distance to go to reach the
collector. For these two reasons, almost all the emitter-injected electrons pass
through the base to the collector.
Only a few free electrons will recombine with holes in the lightly doped
base of Fig. 6-4. Then, as valence electrons, they will flow through the base resistor to the positive side of the VBB supply.
Collector Electrons
Almost all the free electrons go into the collector, as shown in Fig. 6-5. Once they
are in the collector, they feel the attraction of the Vcc source voltage. Because of
this, the free electrons flow through the collector and through Re until they reach
the positive terminal of the collector supply voltage.
192
Figure 6-4 Emitter injects free electrons into base.
Rg
w
VBB VBE
d
Figure 6-5 Free, electrons from base flow into collector.
ay
VBB BE
d
VcCE
Rc
Rc
VCC
TVCE
TVcC
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Example 6-3
A transisfor has a collector current of 2 mA. If the current gain is 135,what is
the base current?
SOLUTION Divide the collector current by the current gain to get:
2mA
IB 135
= 14.8 μA
PRACTICE PROBLEM 6-3 If Ic = 10 mA in Example 6-3, find the
transistor's base current.
6-4 The CE Connection
There are three useful ways to connect a transistor: with a CE(common emitter),
aCC(common collector), or a CB (common base). The CC and CB connections
are discussed in later chapters. In this chapter, wewill focus on the CE connection
because it is the most widely used.
Common Emitter
In Fig. 6-7a, the common or ground side of each voltage source is connected to
the emitter. Because of this, the circuit is called a common emitter (CE)connection. The circuit has two loops. The leftloop is the base loop, and the right loop is
the collector loop.
Figure 6-7 CE connection. (a) Basic cireuit; (b) circuit with grounds. gre
BB
Увв
RB
a님 BV+
VCE
BE
3V+
(e)
수
(9)
Rc
Ac
w
T
Vcc
+VE
Vcc
195
In the base loop, the VBB source forward biases the emitter diode with RB
as
a current-limiting resistance. By changing VEB or RB, we сan change the base
cürrent. Changing the base current will change the collector current. In other
words, the base current controls the collector current. This is important. It means
that a small current (base) controls a large current (collector).
In the collector loop, a source voltage Vcc reverse biases the collector
diode through Rc The supply voltage Vcc must reverse bias the collector diode as
shown, or else the transistor won't work properly. Stated another way, the collector must be positive in Fig. 6-7a to collect most of the free electrons injected into
the base.
In Fig. 6-7a, the flow of base current in the leftloop produces
 a voltage
across the base resistor Ra with the polarity shown. Similarly, the flow of collector current in the right loop produces a voltage across the collector resistor Rc
with the polarity shown.
Double Subscripts
Double-subscript notation is used with transistor circuits. When the subscripts are
the same, the voltage represents
 a source (VBB and Vcc). When the subscripts are
different, the voltage is between the two points (VBE and VCE).
For instance, the subscripts of VEB are the same, which means that VBB İS
the base voltage source. Similarly, Vcc is the collector voltage source. On the
other hand, Vae is the voltage between points B and E, between the base and the
emitter. Likewise, VCE is the voltage between points C and E, between the collector and the emitter.
Single Subscripts
Single subscripts are used for node voltages, that is, voltages between the subscripted point and ground. For instance, if we redraw Fig. 6-7a with grounds, we
get Fig. 6-7b. Voltage VB is the voltage between the base and ground, voltage Vc
is the voltage between the collector and ground, and voltage VE is the voltage
between the emitter and ground. (In this circuit, VE is zero.)
You can calculate a double-subscript voltage of different subscripts by
subtracting its single-subscript voltages. Here are three examples:
VCE VC- VE
VCB= Vc- VB
VBE VB
 VE
This is how you could calculate the double-subscript voltages for any transistor
circuit: Since Vg is zero in this CE connection (Fig. 6-7b), the voltages simplify to:
VCE =VC
VcB Vc- VB
VBE = VB
196
6-5 The Base Curve
What do you think the graph of In versus VRE looks like? It looks like the graph of
an ordinary diode as shown in Fig. 6-8a. And why not? This is
 a forwardbiased emitter diode, so we would expect to see the usual diode graph of current
versus voltage. What this means is that we can use any of the diode 'approximations discussed earlier.
Chapter 6
Bipolar JunctionTransistors
Figure 6-8 (d) Diode curve; (6) example.
2V
100 ΚΩ
B
BE 0.7
(9)
1 ΚΩ
10 V
Applying Ohm's law to the base resistor of Fig. 6-7b gives this derivation:
VBB- VBE
RB (6-6)
If you use an ideal diode, VBE = 0.With the second approximation ion, VBE =0.0.7 V.
Most of the time, you will find the second approximation to be the best
approximations.
compromise between
 the speed of using theideal diode and accuracy of higher
VBE is 0.7
All you need to remember for the second approximation is that
V, as shown in Fig. 6-8a.
Example 6-4 MultiSim
Use the second approximation to calculate the base current in Fig.6-8b. What is
the voltage across the base resistor? The collector current if Bde = 200?
SOLUTION The base source voltage of 2 Vforward biases the emitter diode
through a current-limiting resistance of 100 kn. Since the emitter diode has
0.7 V across it, the voltage across the base resistor is:
VBB- VBE =2 V-0.7 V = 1.3 V
The current through the base resistor is:
1VBB-VBE 1.3V
R』 100KO 13 μA
197
198
With a current gain of200, the collector current is:
Ic BalB =(200)(13 μ.A) = 2.6 mA
PRACTICE PROBLEM 6-4 Repeat Example 6-4 using a base source
voltage VBB = 4 V.
6-6 Collector Curves
In Fig. 6-9a, we already know how to calculate the base current. Since VBB
forward biases the emitter diode, all we need to do is calculate the current through
the base resistor Rg. Now, let us turn our attention to the collector loop.
We can vary VBE and Vcc in Fig. 6-9a to produce different transistor
voltages and currents. By measuring Ic and VCe, we can get data for a graph of Ic
versus VCE
For instance, suppose we change VBB as needed to get In = 10 μA, With
this fixed value of base current, we can now vary Vcc and measure Ic and VCE.
Plotting the data gives the graph shown in Fig. 6-9b. (Note: this graph is for a
2N3904, a widely used low-power transistor. With other transistors, the numbers
mayvary but the shape of the curve will be similar.)
When VCE is zero, the collector diode is not reverse biased. This is why
the graph shows a collector current of zero when VCe is zero.When VCEincreases
from zero, the collector current rises sharply in Fig. 6-9b. When Vce is a few
tenths of avolt, the collector current becomes almost constant and equal to 1 mA.
Figure 6-9 (a) Basic transistor circuit; (b) collector curve.
Rc
VBB
RB
VBE
VCE
T
Vcc
ACTIVE REGION
SATURATION
REGION BREAKDOWN
1в=10 A REGION
1 mA
1V
T
VCE
40 V
(9)
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
The constant-current region in Fig. 6-9b is related to our earlier discussions of transistor action. After the collector diode becomes reverse biased, it is
gathering all the electrons that reach its depletion layer. Further increases in VCE
cannot increase the collector current. Why? Because the collector can collect only
those free electrons that the emitter injects into the base. The number of these injected electrons depends only on thebase circuit, not onthe collector circuit. This
is why Fig. 6-96 shows a constant collector current between a VcE of less than I V
to a Vce of more than 40 V.
If VCE is greater than 40 V, the collector diode breaks down and normal
transistor action is lost. Thetransistor is not intended to operate in the breakdown
region. For this reason, one ofthe maximum ratings to look for on a transistor data
sheet is the collector-emitter breakdown voltage VCE(max). If the transistor breaks
down, it will be destroyed,
Collector Voltage and Power
Kirchhoff's voltage law says that the sum of voltages around aloop or closed path
is equal to zero. When applied to the collector circuit of Fig. 6-9a, Kirchhoff's
voltage law gives us this derivation:
VCE = VCc-IcRc (6-7)
This says that the collector-emitter voltage equals the collector supply voltage
minus the voltage across the collector resistor.
In Fig. 6-9a, the transistor has a power dissipation of approximately:
Pp= Vcelс (6-8)
This says that the transistor power equals the collector-emitter voltage times the
collector current. This power dissipation causes the junction temperature of
the collector diode to increase. The higher the power, the higher the junction
temperature.
Transistors will burn out when the junction temperature is between 150
and 200°C. One of the most important pieces of information on a data sheet is the
maximum powerrating PD(max). The power dissipation given by Eq. (6-8) must be
less than PD(max). Otherwise, the transistor will be destroyed.
Regions of Operation
The curve of Fig. 6-9b has different regions where the action of a transistor
changes. First, there is the region in the middle where VCr is between 1 and 40 V.
This represents the normal operation of a transistor. In this region, the emitter
diode is forward biased, and the collector diode is reverse biased. Furthermore,
the collector is gathering almost all the electrons that the emitter has sent into the
base. This is why changes in collector voltage have no effect on the collector current. This region is called the active region, Graphically, the active region isthe
horizontal part of the curve. In otherwords, the collector current is constant in this
region.
Another region of operation is the breakdown region. The transistor
should never operate in this region because it will be destroyed. Unlike the zener
diode, which is optimized for breakdown operation, a transistor is not intended for
operation in the breakdown region.)
(Third, there is the early rising part of the curve, where VcE is between
0V and a fewtenths of a volt. This sloping part of thecurve is called the saturation region. In this region, the collector diode has insufficient positive voltage to
collect all the free electrons injected into the base. In this region, the base current
In is larger than normal and the current gain Bac is smaller than normal.
199
Figure 6-10 Set of collector curves.
GOOD TO KNOW
When dispiay layed on a curve tracer,
the collector cuurves in Fig. 6-10
actually have a slight upward sloре
as VCE increases. This rise is the
result of the base region becoming
slightly smaller sma/ as Vee Increases
(As Vce increases, the CB depletion
layer widens, thus narrowing the
base.) With a smaller base region,
there are fewer holes available for
recombination. Since each curve
represents aconstant base current
the effect looks like an increase
collector current.
mA
7
9
5
70 А
60 A
50.А
40 μA
30 μА
20 μА
2
10 А
1
3
1V
0
CE 40 V
200
More Curves
Ifwe measure Is andVcr for Ip = 20 µμA, we can plot the second curve ofFig. 6-10.
The curve is similar to the first curve, except that the collector current is 2 mA in the
active region. Again, the collector current is constant in the active region.
When we plot several curves for different base currents, we get a set of
collector curves like those in Fig. 6-10.Another way to get this set of curves is with
a curve tracer (a test instrument that can display Icversus VCE for a transistor). In
the active region of Fig. 6-10, each collector current is 100 times greater than the
corresponding base current. For instance, the top curve has a collector current of
7 mA and a base current of 70 μA. This gives a current gain of:
Bec=Lc 7mA = 100 Ів70 µА
If you check any other curve, you get the same result: a current gain of 100.
With other transistors, the current gain may be different from 100, but
the shape of the curves will be similar. All transistors have an active regio
ion, a saturation region, and a breakdown region. The active region is the most importa rtant
because amplification (enlargement) of signals is possible in the active region.
Cutoff Region
Figure 6-10 has an unexpected curve, the one on the bottom. This represents a
fourth possible region of operation. Notice that the base current is zero, but there
still is a small collector current. On a curve tracer, this current is usually so small
that you cannot see it. We have exaggerated the bottom curve by drawing it larger
than usual. This bottom curve is'called the cutoff region of the transistor, and the
small collector current iscalled the collector cutoffcurrent.
Why does the collector cutoff current exist? Because the collector diode
has reverse minority-carrier current and surface-leakage current. In a welldesigned circuit, the collector cutoff current is small enough to ignore. For
instance, a ? 2N3904 has a collector cutoff current of 50 nA. If the
tual co
current is 1 mA, ignoring a collector cutoff current of 50 nA produces a calculation error of less than 5 percent.
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Recap
A transistor has four distinct operating regions: active, cutoff, saturation, and
breakdown. Transistors operate in the active region when they are used to amplify
weak signals. Sometimes, the active region is called the linear region because
changes in the input signal produce proportional changes in the output signal. The
saturation and cutoff regions are useful in digital and computer circuits, referred
to as switching circuits.
Example 6-5
Thetransistor of Fig. 6-11a has Bac = 300. Calculate Ig, Ic,VCE, and Pp.
Figure 6-11 Transistor circuit. (o) Basic schematic diagram; (b) circuit reuit with grounds; (c) simplified schematic diagram.
10 V
10 V.
1 ΜΩ
w CE
2 k52
w
(a)
2 k62
+
10 V
1 MS2
VCE
10 V
(9)
1 ΜΩ 2 k2
(c)
VCE
오
+10 V
201
202
OLUTION Figure 6-11b shows the same circuit with grounds. The base
curre rrent equals:
Ip=VBB-VBE =10V-0.7V -9.3 μA
RB 1 ΜΩ
The collector current is:
Ic= BadB= (300)(9.3 μ.А) = 2.79 mA
and the collector-emitter voltage is:
VCE Vcc- IcRc = 10 V - (2.79 mA)(2 kN) = 4.42 V
The collector power dissipation is:
Pp =Vcelc= (4.42 V)(2.79 mA) = 12.3 mW
Incidentally, when both the base and the collector supply voltages are
equal, as in Fig. 6-11b, you usually see the circuit drawn in the simpler form of
Fig. 6-11c.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 6-5 Change Rg to 680 k and repeat Example 6-5.
Example 6-6
IMultiSi
Figure 6-12 shows a transistor circuit built on a computer screen with MultiSim.
Calculate the current gain of the 2N4424.
Figure ure 6-12 MultiSim circuit for calculating current gain of2N4424.
R
4700
330k
Q1
10 V
2N4424
iimslated Agilent Multimeter XMM1
Agilent
Chapter 6
SOLUTION First, get the base current as follows:
10V-0.7V
IB - 28.2 μA
330 kn
Next, we need the collector current. Since the multimeter indicates acollectoremitter voltage of 5.45 V (rounded to three places), the voltage across the collector resistor is:
V= 10 V - 5.45 V= 4.55 V
Since the collector current flows through the collector resistor, we can use
Ohm's law to get the collector current:
4.55 V
lc = 9.68 mA 470Ω
Now, we can calculate the current gain:
Bde
9.68 mA = 343
28.2 μА
The 2N4424 is an example of transistor with a high current gain. The typical
range of Bae for small-signal transistors is 100 to 300.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 6-6 Using MultiSim, change the base resistor of
Fig. 6-12 to 560 kn and calculate the current gain of the 2N4424.
GOOD TO KNOW
Abipolar transistor is frequently
used as a constant current source.
6-7 Transistor Approximations
Figure 6-13a shows a transistor. Avoltage VBE appears across the emitter diode,
and a voltage VCE appears across the collector-emitter terminals. What is the
equivalent circuit for this transistor?
Ideal Approximation
Figure 6-13b shows theideal approximation of a transistor. We visualize the emitter diode as an ideal diode. In this case, VBE = 0. This allows us to calculate base
current quickly and easily. This equivalent circuit is often useful for troubleshooting when all we need is a rough approximation of base current.
As shown in Fig. 6-13b, the collector side of the transistor acts like a current source that pumps a collector current of Baels through the collector resistor.
Therefore, after you calculate the base current, you can multiply by the current
gain to get the collector current.
The Second Approximation
Figure 6-13c shows the second approximation of a transistor. This is more commonly used because it may improve the analysis significantly when the basesupply voltage is small.
This time we use the second approximation of a diode whencalculating
base current. For silicon transistors, this means that VBE = 0.7 V. (For germanium
transistors, VBE = 0.3 V.) With the second approximation, the base and collector
currents will be slightly less than their ideal values.
Bipolar lar Junction Transistors 203
204
Figure 6-13 Transistorapproximations. (a) Original device; (b) ideal approximation;
[c) second approximation.
BE
(a)
VCE
+0
VBE =OV IDEAL ddeB CE
(9
b
VBE =0.7 A SECOND Ваc1B
CE
Higher Approximations
The bulk resistance of the emitter diode becomes important only inin high-power
applications in which the currents are large. The effect of bulk resista stance in the
emitter diode is to increase VBE to more than 0.7 V. For instance, in some highpower circuits, the VBEacross the base-emitter diode may be more than 1 V.
Likewise, the bulk resistance of the collector diode may have a noticeable effect in some designs. Besides emitter and collector bulk resistances, a transistor has many other higher-order effects that make hand calculations tedious and
time-consuming. For this reason, calculations beyond the second approximation
should use acomputer solution.
Example 6-7
What is the collector-emitter voltage in Fig. 6-14? Use theideal sistor.
Figure 6-14 Example.
15 V
3.6 k
w
470 ΚΩ
Pdc =100
+
15 V
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
SOLUTION An ideal emitter diode means that:
VBE0
Therefore, the total voltage across Rn is 15 V. Ohm's law tells us that:'
15 V IB =
470 k
= 31.9 µA
The collector current equals the current gain times the base current:
Ic100(31.9 μА) = 3.19 mA
Next, we calculate the collector-emitter voltage. It equals the collector supply
voltage minus the voltage drop across the collector resistor:
VCE = 15 V - (3.19 mA)(3.6 kn) = 3.52 V
In a circuit like Fig. 6-14, knowing the value of the emitter current is
not important, so most people would not calculate this quantity. But since this
is an example, we will calculate the emitter current. It equals the sum of the
collector current and the base current:
Ig = 3.19 mA + 31.9 μA 3.22 mA
This value is extremely close to the value of the collector current, which is
another reason for not bothering to calculate it. Mostpeople would say that the
emitter current is approximately 3.19 mA, the value of the collector current.
Example 6-8 ill MultiSim
What is the collector-emitter voltage in Fig. 6-14 if you use the second
approximation?
SOLUTION In Fig. 6-14, here is how you would calculate the currents and
voltages, using the second approximation. The voltage across the emitter diode
is:
VBE = 0.7 V
Therefore, the total voltage acróss RB is 14.3 V, the difference between 15 and
0.7 V. The base current is:
_14.3 V
IB =
= 30.4 μA
470 k2
The collector current equals the current gain times the base current:
Ic =100(30.4 μА) = 3.04 mA
The collector-emitter voltage equals:
VCE = 15 V- (3.04 mA)(3.6 k)) =4.06 A
The improvement in this answer over the ideal ansy uswer is about half a
volt: 4.06 versus 3.52 V. Isthis half a volt important? It depepnds onwhether you
are troubleshooting, designing, and so on.
205
Example 6-9
Suppose you measure a VBE of 1 V. What is the collector-emitter voltage in Fig. 6-14?
SOLUTION The total voltage across Rg is 14 V, the difference between 15 and 1 V. Ohm's law tells us that the base
current is:
14 V
IB 29.8 μА
470 k2
The collector current equals the current gain times the base current:
Ic 100(29.8 μА) = 2.98 mA
The collector-emitter voltage equals:
VCE= 15 V - (2.98 mA)(3.6 kn) = 4.27 V
Example 6-10
What is the collector-emitter voltage in the three preceding examples if the base supply voltage is 5 V?
SOLUTION With the ideal diode:
5V
IB= - 10.6 µА
470 k
Uk -
Ic 100 (10.6 .6 μ.А) = 1.06 mA
VCE = 15 V - -(1(1.06 mA)(3.6 k2) = 11.2 V
With the second approximation:
4.3 V IB
470 kf
= 9.15 μА
Ic= = 100(9.15 μА) = 0.915 mA
VCE 15 V- (0.915 mA)(3.6 k) = 11.7 V
With the measured VBE
4V
IB = 8.51. μΑ
470 kΩ
Ic = 100(8.51 μА) = 0.851 mA
Vcg = 15 V-(0.851 mA)(3.6 ΚΩ) = 11.9 V
This example allows you to compare the three approximations for thecase of low base supply voltage. As you
can see, all answers are within a volt of each other. This isthe first clue as to which approximation to use. If you are
troubleshooting this circuit, the ideal analysis will probably be adequate. But if you are designing the circuit, you might
want to use a computer solution because of its accuracy. Summary Table 6-1 illustrates the difference between the ideal
and second transistor approximations.
PRRACTICE PROBLEM 6-10 Repeat Example 6-10 using a base supply voltage of 7 V.
206 Chapter 6
Summary Table 6–1 Transistor Cireuit Approxima
Ideal Second
Circuit
B님
w
220 k2
VBB 12 V
When used
VBE
Rc1 k
8=100 12 V
Troubleshooting or rough estimates
ΛΟ
Vcc
Rc1 k2
Rg
+
ww
220 ks2
=100 12 VVcc
T
VBB 12 V
When more accurate calculations are needed.
Especially when VB8 is small.
0.7 V
VCE
VBB
R8
12 V
220 κΩ = 54,5 μΑ
(1) (Bd) = (54.5 µА) (100) 5.45 mA
Vcc- Ic R
12V-(5.45 mA) (1 kA) = 6.55.V
VBB-0.7 V 12V-0.7 V
RB 220 ΚΩ
=51.4 μA
(1)(G)(51:4 μA) (100) = 5.1
5.14 mA
Vce- Ic R
= 12 V- (5.14 mA) (1 k2) 6.86 V
Bipolar Junction Transistors
6-8 Reading Data Sheets
Small-signal transistors can dissipate less than a watt; power transistors can
dissipate moret ore than a watt.When you look at a data sheet for either type of tran
sistor, you should start with the maximum ratings because these are the limits on
the transistor currents, voltages, and other quantities.
Breakdown Ratings
In the data sheet shown in Fig. 6-15, the following maximum ratings of a 2N3904
are given:
VCEO 40 V
VCво 60 V
VEBO 9V
1S
These voltage ratings are reverse breakdown voltages, and VCEo is the voltage
between the collector and the emitter with the base open. The second rating
VCвO, which stands for the voltage from collector to base with the emmitter open.
Likewise, VEBO is the maximum reverse voltage from emitter to base with the col
lector open. As usual, a conservative design never allows voltages to get even
close to the foregoing maximum ratings. If you recall, even getting close to max
imumratings can shorten the lifetime of some devices.
207
Figure 6-15(a) 2N3904 data sheet.
208
H
OLIH
SEMICONDUCT TOR TM
2N3904 MMВТ3904 PZT3904
TO-92
C
SOT-23
Mark: 1A
B
E
NPN General Purpose Amplifier
This device is designed as a general purpose amplifier and switch.
The useful dynamic range extends to 100 mA as a switch and to
100 MHz as an amplifier.
Absolute Maximum Ratings" T=25°C unless otherwise noled
-223
8
2
Symbol Parameter Value Units
VCEO Collector-Emitter Voitage
40
Vсво Collector-Base Voltage 60 V
VEBO Emitter-Base Voltage
6.0
Collector Current - Continuous 200 mA
Tu. Tstg Operating and Storage Junction Temperature Range -55 to +150
2°
"These ratings are limiting values above which theserviceability ofany semiconductor device may be impaired.
NOTES:
2N3904 / MMBT3904 PZT3904 /
Total Device Dissipation
Derate above 25°C
1) These ralings are based on amaximum junction temperature of 150 degrees C.
2) These are stoady state fimits. The factory should beconsulted on applications involving puised or low duty cycle operations.
Thermal Characteristics
Symbol
PD
Characteristic
TA25°C unless otherwise noted
Max Units
2N3904 *MMBT3904 **PZT3904
625
5.0
350
2.8
1,000
8.0
mW
mW/NIC
ReJc Thermal Resistance, Junction to Case 83.3 °C/M
W
REJA Thermal Resistance, Junction to Ambient 200 357 125 °C/W
*Device mounted on FR-4 PCB 1.6"X1.6"X0.06."
**Device mounted on FR-4 PCB 36mmX16mm X1.5mm; mounting pad for the collector lead min. 6 om²,
2007 Feirchild Fa Semiconducior Corparat 2N390 34/MMBT3904/PZT3904, Rev A
Chapter 6
Figure 6-15(b) (continued)
NPN General Purpose Amphplifier
(conti ntinued).
Electrical Characteristics T25°C unless olherwise noted
Symbol Parameter Test Conditions Min Max Units
OFF CHARACTERISTICS
V(BR)CEO Collector-Emitter Breakdown
Voltage
Ic = 1.0 mA, la = 0 40 V
V(BR)CBO Collector-Base Breakdown Voltage lc= 10 µA, E=0 60 V
V(BR)EBO Emitter-Base Breakdown Voltage le=10 μA, Ic = 0 6.0 V
1BL Base Cutoff Current VCE =30 V, VEB 3V 50 nA
ICEX Collector Cutoff Current VCE = 30 V, VEB =3V 50 nA
ON CHARACTERISTICS*
ΠFΕ DC Current Gain
2N3904 / MMBT3904 PZT3904 /
Ic=0.1 mA, VcE = 1.0 V 40
Ic1.0 mA, VCE = 1.0 V 70
Ic = 1Q mA, VCE 1.0 V 100 300
Ic= 50 mA, VCE = 1.0 V 60
Ic=100 mA, VcE 1.0 V 30
VCE(sBt) Collector-Emitter Saturation Voltage Ic10 mA, Ig = 1.0 mA 0.2 V
=50 mA, g = 5.0 mA 0.3 V
VBE(sat) Base-Emitter Saturation Voltage Ic= 10 mA, 1.0 mA 0.65 0.85 V
Ic=50 mA, Ig = 5.0 mA 0.95 V
SMALL SIGNALCHARACTERISTICS
Current Gain - Bandwidth Product Ic= 10 mA, VCE 20 V,
f= 100 MHz
300 MHz
Cabo Output Capacitance VcB =5.0 V, le = 0, 4.0 pF
1= 1.0 MHZ Cibo Input Capacitance VEB = 0.5 V, Ic = 0, 8.0 pF
f= 1.0 MHz NF Noise Figure
Iс 100 μA, VCE =5.0 V,
Rs =1.0ks2,f=10 Hz to 15.7klz
5.0 dB
SWITCHING CHARACTERISTICS
td Defay Time
4
Rise Time
ts Storage Time
Fall Time
*Pulsa Test: Pulse Width s300 us, Duty Cycle s2.0%
Vcc= 3.0 V,VBE 0.5 V, 35 ns
I= 10 mA, l81 =.1.0 mA 35 กร
Vcc =3.0 V, Ic = 10mA 200
le₁ 182 1.0 mA 50
su
Spice Model
NPN(1s=6.734f Xti=3 Eg=1.11 Vaf=74.03 Bf=416.4 Ne=1.259 Ise=6.734 Ikf-66.78m Xtb=1.5 Br=.7371 Nc=2
Isc=0 Ikr=0 Rc=1 Cjc=3.638p Mjc=.3085 Vjc=.75 Fc=.5 Cje=4.493p Mje=.2593 Vje=.75 Tr=2 =239.5n Tf=301.2p
Itf=.4 Vt=4 Xtf=2 Rb=10)
Bipolar Junction Transistors
209
Maximum Current and Power
Also shown in the data sheet are these values:
Ic
PD
200 mA
625 mW
Figure 6-16 (a) Push-on heat sink;
(b) power-tab transistor; (c) power
transistor with collector connected
to case.
(a)
METAL TAВ
TO-2220
1. BASE
2. COLLECTOR
3. EMITTER
(b)
TO-204AA (TO-3)
CASE 1-07
EMITTITTER
BASE COLLECTOR/CASE
(0)
Here Ic is the maximum dc collector current rating. This means that a 2N3904 can
handle up to 200 mA of direct current, provided the power rating is not exceeded.
The next rating, Pp, is the maximum power rating of the device. This power rating
depends on whether any attempt is being made to keep the transistor cool. If the
transistor is not being fan-cooled and does not have a heat sink (discussed below),
its case temperature T'e will be much higher than the ambienttemperature TА
In most applications, a small-signal transistor like the 2N3904 is not fancooled and it does nothave a heat sink. In this case, the 2N3904 has a power rating
of 625 mWwhen the ambient temperature TA is 25°C.
The case temperature To is the temperature of the transistor package or
housing. In most applications, the case temperature will be higher than 25°C
because the internal heat of the transistor increases the case temperature.
The only way to keep the case temperature at 25°C when the ambient
temperature is 25°C is by fan-cooling orby using a large heat sink. If fan cooling
or a large heat sink is used, it is possible to reduce the temperature of the transistor case to 25°C. For this condition, the power rating can be increased to 1.5 W.
Derating Factors
As discussed in Chap. 5, the derating factor tells you how much you have to
rednce the power rating of a device. The derating factor of the 2N3904 is given as
5 mW/°C. This means that you have to reduce the power rating of 625 mW
by 5 mW for each degree above 25°C.
Heat Sinks
One way to increase the power rating of a transistor is to get rid of the internal heat
faster. This is thepurpose of a heat sink (a mass of metal). If we increase the surface area of the transistor case, we allow the heat to escape more easily into the
surrounding air. For instance, Fig. 6-16a shows one type of heat sink. When this
is pushed onto the transistor case, heat radiates more quickly because of the increased surface area of the fins.
Figure 6-16b shows another approach. This is the outline of a power-tab
transistor. Ametal tab provides a path out of the transistor for heat. This metal tab
can be fastened to the chassis of electronic equipment. Because the chassis is a
massive heat sink, heat can easily escape from the transistor to the chassis.
Large power transistors like Fig. 6-16c have the collector connected to
the case to let heat escape as easily as possible. The transistor case is then fastened to the chassis. To prevent the collector from shorting to chassis ground, a
thin insulating washer and heat-conducting compound is used between the transistor case and the chassis. The important idea here is that heat can leave the
transistor more rapidly, which means that the transistor has a higher power rating at the sane ambient temperature. Sometimes, the transistor is fastened to a
large heat sink with fins; this is even more efficient in removing heat from the
transistor.
No matter what kind of heat sink is used, the purpose is to lower the
case temperature because this will lower the internal or junction temperature of
the transistor. The data sheet includes other quantities called thermal resistances. These allow a designer to work out the case temperature for different
heat sinks.
210
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Current Gain
In another system of analysis called à parameters, hre rather than Bas is defined
as the symbol for current gain. The two quantities are equal:
BachFE
(6-9)
Remember this relation because data sheets use the symbol hFe for the current gain.
In the section labeled "On Characteristics," the data sheet of a 2N3904
lists the values of hFE as follows:
mA
Min. hFE Max. hrE
0.1.
40
1 70
10 100 300
50 60
100 30
The 2N3904 works best when the collector current is inthe vicinity of 10 mA. At
this level of current, the minimum current gain is 100 and the maximum current
gain is 300. What does this mean? It means that if you mass-produce a circuit
using 2N3904s and a collector current of 10 mA,some of the transistors will have
a current gain as low as 100, and some will have aa current gain as high as 300.
Most of the transistors will have a current gain in the middle of this range.
Notice how the minimum current gain decreases for collector currents
that are less than or greater than 10 mA. At 0.1 mA, the minimum current gain is
40. At 100 mA, the minimum current gain is 30. The data sheet shows only the
minimum current gain for currents different from 10 mA because the minimum
values represent the worst case. Designers usually do.worst-case design; that is,
they figure out how the circuit will work when the transistor characteristics such
as current gain are at their worst case.
Example 6-11
A2N3904 has VCE = 10 V and Ic= 20 mA.What is the power dissipation?
How safe is this level of power dissipation if the ambient temperature is 25°C?
SOLUTION Multiply VCe by Ic to get:
Pp = (10 V)(20 mA) = 200 mW
Is this safe? If the ambient temperature is 25°C, the transistor has a power rating
of 625 mW. This means that the transistor is well within its power rating.
As you know, à good design includes a safety factor to ensure a longer
operating life for the transistor. Safety factors of 2 or more are common. A
safety factor of 2 means that the designer would allow up to half of 625 mW,
or 312 mW. Therefore, a power of only 200 mW is very conservative, provided
the ambienttemperature stays at 25°C.
211.
Example 6-12
How safe is the level of power dissipation if the ambient temperature is 100°C in
Example 6-11?
SOLUTION First, work out the number of degrees that the new ambient
temperature is above the reference temperature of 25°C. Do this as follows:
100°C - 25°C = 75°C
Sometimes, you will see this written as:
AT = 75°C.
where A stands for "difference in." Read the equation as the difference in
temperature equals 75°С.
Now, multiply the derating factor by the difference in temperature
to get:
(5 mW/°C)(75°C) = 375 mW
You often see this written as:
AP 375 mW
where AP stands for the difference in power. Finally, you subtract the difference
in power from the power rating at 25°C:
PD(max) = 625 mW -
 375mW =250 mW
This is the power rating of the transistor when the ambient temperature is 100°С.
How safe is this design? The transistor is still all right because its
power is 200mWcómpared with the maximum rating of 250 mW. But we no
longer have a safety factor of 2. If the ambient temperature were to increase further, or if the power dissipation were to increase, the transistor could get dangerously close to the burmout point. Because of this, a designer might redesign the
circuit to restore the safety factor of 2. This means changing circuit values to get a power dissipation of half of 250 mW, or 125 mW.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 6-12 Using a safety factor of 2, could you safely
use the 2N3904 transistor of Example 6-12 if the ambient temperature were
75°C?
212
6-9 Surface-Mount Transistors
Surface-mount transistors are usually found in a simple three-terminal, gull-wing
package. The SOT-23 package is the smaller of the two and is used for transistors
rated in the milliwatt range. The SOT-223 is the larger package and is used when
the power rating is about 1 W.
Figure 6-17 shows a typical SOT-23 package. Viewed from the top, the
terminals are numbered in a counterclockwise direction, with terminal 3 the lone
terminal on one side. The terminal assignments are fairly well standardized for
bipolar transistors: 1 is thebase; 2 is the emitter, and 3 is the collector. (The usual
terminal assignments for FETs:
 1 is the drain, 2 is the source, and 3 is the gate.)
Chapter 6
Figure 6-17 The SOT-23 package.is suitable for SM transistors with power ratings less
than 1 W.
2
COLLECTOR
BASE
3
2
EMITTER
Figure 6-1-18 The SOT-223 package is
designed tot dissipate the heat generated
by transis sistors operating in the 1-W range.
TOГОР
2 COLLECTOR
BASEEMITTER
BOTTOM.
COLLECTOR
0.1 in.
SCALE
Bipolar Junction Transistors
SIDE
0.1 in.
SCALE
The SOT-223 package is designed to dissipate the heat generated ted by
transistors operating in the 1-W range. This package has a larger surface rface area than
the SOT-23; this increases its ability to dissipate heat. Some of the heat is dissipated from the top surface, and much is carried away by the contact between the
device and the circuit board below. The special feature of the SOT-223 case, how
ever, is the extra collector tab that extends from the side opposite the main terminals. The bottom view in Fig. 6-18 shows that the two collector terminals are electrically identical.
and The standard terminal assignments are different for the SOT-23
SOT-223 packages. The three terminals located on one edge are numbered in sequence, from left to right as viewed from the top. Terminal 1 is the base, 2 is the
collector (electrically identical to the large tab at the opposite edge), and 3 is the
emitter. This is also shown in the data sheet of Fig. 6-15.
The SOT-23 packages are too small to have any standard part identification codes printed on them. Usually the only way to determine the standard identifier is by noting the part number printed on the circuit board and then consulting
the parts list for the circuit. SOT-223 packages are large enough to have identification codes printed on them, but these codes are rarely standard transistor identification codes. The typical procedure for learning more about a transistor in an
SOT-223 package is the same as for the smaller SOT-23 configurations.
Occasionally a circuit uses SOIC packages that house multiple transistors. The SOIC package resembles the tiny dual-inline package commonly used
for ICs and the older feed-through circuit board technology. The terminals on the SOIC, however, have the gull-wing shape required for SMtechnology.
6-10 Troubleshooting
Figure 6-19 shows a common-emitter circuit with grounds. Abase supply of 15 V
forward-biases the emitter diode through a resistance of470 kn. Acollector supply of 15 Vreverse biases the collector diode through a resistanice of 1 kn. Let us.
213
234
Figure 6-19 Troubleshooting a circuit. A RB w
470 k
VEB
15 VT
C
Cw
1 k2
D
B
Vcc
Pdc 100
T.15
V
use the ideal approximation to find the
he collector-emitter voltage. The calculations
are as follows: B
15
V
=
 31.9 μА
470 ΚΩ
Ic
= 100(31.9 μA) = 3.19 mA
VCE = 15
V
-
 (3.19 mA)(1 k) = 11.8 V
Common Troubles
If you are troubleshooting a circuit like Fig. 6-19, one of the first things to measure is the collector-emitter voltage. It should have a value in the vicinity of 11.8
V. Why don't we use the second orthird approximation to get a more accurate
answer? Because resistors usually have a tolerance of at least ±5 percent, which
causes the collector-emitter voltage to differ from your calculations, no matter
what approximation you use.
In fact, when troubles come, they are usually big troubles like shorts or
opens. Shorts may occur because of damaged devices or solder splashes across resistors. Opens may occur when components burn out. Troubles like these produce
big changes in currents and voltages. For instance, one of the most common troubles occurs when no supply voltage reaches the collector. This could happen in a
number of ways, such as
 a trouble in the power supply itself, an open lead
between the power supply and the collector resistor, an open collector resistor,
and so on. In any of these cases, the collector voltage of Fig. 6-19 will be approximately zero because there is no collector supply voltage.
Another possible trouble is an open base resistor, which drops the base
current to zero. This forces the collector current to drop to zero and the collectoremitter voltage to rise to 15 V, the value of the collector supply voltage. An open
transistor has the same effect.
How Troubleshooters Think
The point is this: Typical troubles cause big deviations in transistor currents and
voltages. Troubleshooters are seldom looking for differences in tenths of a volt.
They are looking for voltages that are radically different from the ideal values.
This is why the ideal transistor is useful as a starting point in troubleshooting.
Furthermore, it explains why many troubleshooters don't even use calculators to
find the collector-emitter voltage.
If they don't use calculators, what do they do? They mentally estimate
the value of the collector-emitter voltage. Here is the thinking of an experienced
troubleshooter while estimating the collector-emitter voltage in Fig. 6-19.
The voltage across the base resistor is about 15 V.
A base resistance
of
1 MOwould produce a base current ofabout 15 μA. Since 470.kn is
half of 1 MI, the base current is twice as much, approximately 30 мА.
Chapter 6
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Table 6-1 Troubles and Symptoms
Trouble VV VcV Comments
None 0.7 12 No trouble
RBS 15 15 Transistor blown
RBO
0: 15 No base or collector current
Rcs 0.7 15
Rco 0.7 0
No VBB 15
Check supply and lead
No Vcc 0.7 0 Check supply and lead
A current gain of 100 gives a collector current ofabout 3 mA. When this
flows through 1 kl, it produces a voltage drop of 3 V. Subtracting 3 V
from 15 V leaves 12 Vacross the collector-emitter terminals. So, VCE
should measure in the vicinity of 12 V, or else there is something wrong
in this circuit.
A Table of Troubles
As discussed in Chap. 5, a shorted component is equivalent to a resistance of zero,
whereas an open component is equivalent to a resistance of infinity. For instance,
the base resistor Rs may be shorted or open. Let us designate these troubles byRBs
Rcs
and

RBO. Similarly, the collector resistor may be shorted or open, symbolized by
and RCOTable 6-1 shows a few of the troubles that could occur cur in a circuit like
Fig. 6-19. The voltages were calculated using the second approximation. When
the circuit is operating normally, you should measure a collector voltage of
approximately 12 V. If the base resistor were shorted, +15 V would appear at
the base. This large voltage would destroy the emitter diode. The collector diode
would probably open as a result, forcing the collector voltage to go to 15 V. The
trouble REs and its voltages are shown in Table 6-1.
If the base resistor were open, there would be no base voltage or current.
increase
Furthermore,

 the collector current would be zero, and the collector voltage would
to 15 V. The trouble RBo and its voltages are shown in Table 6-1. Continuing like this, wee can get the remaining entries of the table.
Figure 6-19 is repeated here for reference.
Figure 6-19 Troubleshooting a circuit.
C Rc D
1 ΚΩ
A RB B
470 ΚΩ
VBB
15V
Vcc
Pdc 100 15 V
215
Summary
SEC. 6-1 THE UNBIASED
TRANSISTOR
Atransistor has three doped regions: an
emitter, a base, and a collector. A pn
junction exists between the base and the
emitter; this part of the transistor is called
the emitter diode. Another pri junction
exists between the base and the collector;
this part of the transistor is called the
collector diode.
SEC. 6-2 THE BIASED
TRANSISTOR
For normal operation, you forward bias
the emitter diode and reverse bias the
collector diode. Under these conditions,
the emitter sends free electrons into the
base. Most of these free electrons pass
through the base to the collector. Because
of this, the collector current approximately
equals the emitter current. The base
current is much smaller, typically less than
5 percent of the emitter current.
SEC. 6-3 TRANSISTOR CURRENTS
The ratio of the collector current to the
base current is called the current gain,
symbolized as Bde or hEE. For low-power
transistors, this is typically 100 to 300. The
emitter current is the largest of the three
currents, the coliector current is almost as
large, and the base current is much
smaller.
SEC. 6-4 THE CE CONNECTION
The emitter is grounded or common in.a
CE circuit. The base-emitter par't of a
transistor acts approximately like an
ordinary diode. The base-collector part
acts like a current source that is equal to
Buc times the base current. The transistor
has an active region, a saturation region, a
cutoff region, and a breakdown region.
The active region is used in linear
amplifiers. Saturation and cutoff off are used
in digital circuits.
SEC. 6-5 THE BASE CURVE
The graph of base current versus baseemitter voltage looks like the graph of an
ordinary diode. Because of this, we can
use any of the three diode approximations
to calculate the base current. Most of the
time, the ideal and the second.
approximation are all that is necessary.
SEC. 6-6 COLLECTOR CURVES
The four distinct operating regions of a
transistor are the active region, the
saturation region, the cutoff region, and
the breakdown region. When it is used as
an amplifier, the transistor operates in the
active region. When it is used in digital
circuits, the transistor úsually operates in
the saturation and cutoff regions. The
breakdown region is avoided because the
risk of transistor destruction is too high.
SEC. 6-7 TRANSISTOR
APPROXIMATIONS
Exact answers are a waste of time in most
electronics work. Almost everybody uses
approximations because the answers are
adequate for most applications. The ideai
transistor is useful for basic
troubleshooting. The third approximation
is needed for precise design. The second
approximation is a good compromise for
both troubleshooting and design.
SEC. 6-8 READING DATA SHEETS
Transistors have maximum ratings on
their voltages, currents, and powers.
Small-signal transistors can dissipate 1W
or less. Power transistors can dissipate
more than 1 W. Temperature can change
the value of the transistor characteristics.
Maximum power decreases ses with a
temperature increase. Also, current gain
varies greatly with temperature.
SEC. 6-9 SURFACE-MOUNT
TRANSISTORS
Surface-mount transistors (SMTs) are
found in avariety of packages. A simple
three-terminal gull-wing package is
common. Some SMTs are packaged in
styles that can dissipate more than 1 W of
power. Other surface-mount devices may
contain (house) multiple transistors.
SEC. 6-10 TROUBLESHOOTING
When troubles arise, they usually produce
large changes in transistor voltages. This is
why ideal analysis is usually adequate for
troubleshooters. Furthermore, many
troubleshooters spurn the use of
calculators because it slows down their
thinking. The best troubleshooters learn to
mentally estimate the voltages they want
to measure.
Definitio tions
[6-2) DCOC alpha:
216
그이
310
ade
57=
E
(6-3). DC beta (current gain)
ग
B
Chapter 6.
Derivations
(6-1) Emitter current:
1B
오
31
(6-4) Collector currént:
오
(6-7) Collector-emitter voltage:
RC
w+Vcc
c+B +VBE O CE
VCE = Vcc Iefic
Pdo
IcBdelB
(6-5) Base current:
(6-6) Base current:
+VCE
c
Bae
Rg
+VBB
VBE
1= VBB-VBE
RB
Student Assignments
1. A transistor has how many pn
junctions?
a.
b. 2
c. 3
(8-9)
(6-9)
CE power dissipation:
VCE PD= Vctlc
Current gain:
Bdc hFE
FE
3..Who invented the first junetion
transistor?
5. The barrier potential across each.
silicon depletion layer is
a. Bell a. 0
b. Faraday b. 0.3 V
c. Marconi c. 0.7 V
d. Schockley d. 1 V
4. In an npn transistor, the majority 6. The emitter diode is usually
a. Forward biased
d. 4
2. What is one important thing
transistors do?
a. Amplify weak signals
b. Rectify line voltage
c. Step-down voltage
d. Emit light
carriers in the emitter are
a. Free electrons
b. Holes
c. Neither
d. Both
Bipolar Junction Transistors
b. Reversé biased
c.. Nonconducting
d. Operating in the breakdown
region
217
7. For normal operation of thetransistor, the collector diode has to be
8.
a. Forward biased
b. Reverse biased
c. Nonconducting
d. Operating in the breakdown region
The base of an npn transistor is
thin and
a. Heavily doped
b. Lightly doped
с. Metallic
d. Doped by a pentavalent material
9.. Most of the electrons in the base
of an npn transistor flow
a. Out of the base lead
b. Into the collector
c. Into the emitter
d. Into the base supply
10. Most of the electrons in the base
of an npn transistor do not
recombine because they
a. Have a long lifetime
b. Have a negative charge
c. Must flow through the base
d. Flow out of the base
11. Most of the electrons that flow
through the base will
a. Flow into the collector
b. Flow out of the base lead
c. Recombine with base holes
d. Recombine with coliector holes
12. The beta ofatransistor is the ratio
of the
a. Collector current to.emitter
current
b. Collector current to base current
c. Base current to collector current
d. Emitter current to collector
current
13. Increasing the collector supply
voltage will increase
a. Base current
b. Collector current
c. Emitter current
d. None of the above
14. The fact that there are many free
electrons in a transistor emitter
region means the emitter is
a. Lightly doped
b. Heavity doped
c. Undoped
d. None of the above
15. In a normally biased npn transistor,
the electrons in the emitter have
enough energy to overcome the
barrier potential of the
a. Base-emitter junction
b. Base-collector junction
c. Collector-base junction
d. Recombination path
16. In a pnp transistor, the major
carriers in the emitter are
1.7.
a. Free electrons
b. Holes
c. Neither
d. Both
What is the most important fact
about the collector current?
a. It is measured in milliamperes.
b. It equals the base current divided
by the current gain.
c. It is small.
d. It approximately equals the
emitter current.
18. If the current gain is 100 and the
collector current is 10 mA, the
base current is
a. 10 μA c. 1 A
b. 100 μA d. 10 A
19. The base-emitter voltage is usually
a. Less than the base supply voltage
b. Equal to the base supply voltage
c. More than the base supply voltage
d. Cannot answer
20. The collector-emitter voltage is
usually
a. Less than the collector supply
voltage
b. Equal to the collector supply
voltage
c. More than the collector supply
voltage
d. Cannot answer
21. The power dissipated by a
transistor approximately equals
the collector current times
a. Base-emitter voltage
b. Collector-emitter voltage
c. Base supplyvoltage
d. 0.7 V
22. A small collector current with zero
base current is caused by the
leakage current of the
a. Emitter diode
b. Collector diode
c. Base díode
d. Transistor
23. Atransistor acts like a diode and a
a. Voltage source
b. Current source
c. Resistance
d. Power supply
24. If the base current is 100 mA and
the current gain is 30, the emitter
current is
a. 3.33 mA
b. 3 A
c. 3.1 A
d. 10 A
25. The base-emitter voltage of an
ideal transistor is
a. 0
b. 0.3 V
c. 0.7 V
d. 1 V
26. If you recalculate the collectoremitter voltage with the second
approximation, the answer will
usually be
a. Smaller than the ideal value
b. The same as the ideal value
c. Larger than the ideal value
d. Inaccurate
27. In the active region, the collector
current is not changed
significantly by
a. Base supply voltage
b. Base current
c. Current gain
d. Collector resistance
28. The base-emitter voltage of the
second approximation is
a. 0
b..0.3 V.
c. 0:7 V
d. 1 V
29. If the base resistor is open, what
is the collector current?
a. 0
b. 1 mA
c. 2 mA
d. 10 mA
30. When comparing the power
dissipation of a 2N3904 transistor
to the PZT3904 surface-mount
version, the 2N3904
a. Can handle less power
b. Can handle more power
c. Can handle the same power
d. Is not rated
218 Chapter 6
Problems
SEC. 6-3 TRANSISTOR CURRENTS
6-1 A transistor has an emitter current of 10 mAand a
collector current of 9.95 mA. What is the base current?
6-2 The collector current is 10 mA, and the base current is
0.1 mA.What is the current gain?
6-3 A transistor has a current gain of 150 and a base cur turrent
of30 μA.What is the collector current?
6-4. If the collector current is 100 mA and the current gain ain iS
330 k
65, what is the emitter current?
SEC. 6-5 THE BASE CURVE
6-5MaltiSim What is the base current in Fig. 6-20?
820 £2
10 V.
470 ΚΩ
Figure 6-20
ww
Pdc200
T10 V
680 k2
+5 V +15 V
21+ A
(e)
1.2 kQ
PP
S
1.5 kQ
>
(9)
150
Pde = 175
6-6ultisim If the current gain decreases from 200 to
100 in Fig. 6-20, what is the base current?
6-7 If the 470 k of Fig. 6-20 has a tolerance of +5 percent,
what is the maximum base current?
SEC. 6-6 COLLECTOR CURVES
6-8
6-9
IlI MultiSi A transistor circuit similar to Fig. 6-20 has a
collector supply voltage of 20 V, a collector resistance of
1.5 k2, and acolleetor current of 6 mA. What is the
collector-emitter voltage?
If a transistor has a collector current of 100 mA and a
collector-emitter voltage of 3.5 V,what is its power
dissipation?
SEC. 6-7 TRANSISTOR APPROXIMATIONS
6-10 What are the collector-emitter voltage and the transistor
power dissipation in Fig. 6-20? (Give answers for the ideal
and the second approximation.)
6-11 Figure 6-21 a shows a simpler way to draw a transistor
circuit. It works the same as the circuits already discussed.
What is collector-emitter voltage? The transistor power
dissipation? (Give answers for the ideal and the second
approximation.)
6-12 When the base and collector supplies are equal, the
transistor can be drawn as shown in Fig. 6-216. What is
the collector-emitter voltage in this circuit? The transistor
power? (Give answers for the ideal and the second
approximation.)
Bipolar Junction Transistors
Figure 6-21
SEC. 6-8 READING DATA А SHEETS
6-13 What is the storage temperat rature range of a 2N3904?
6-14 What is the minimum hFe for a 2N3904 for a collector
current of 1 mA andacollector- emitter voltage
of 1 V?
6-15 A transistor has a power rating of 1 W. if the collectoremitter voltage is 10 Vand the collector current is
120 mA, what happens to the transistor?
6-16 A 2N3904 hás a power dissipation of 625 mW without a
heat sink. If the ambient temperature is 65°C, what
happens to the power rating?
SEC. 6-10 TROUBLESHOOTING
6-17 1 鹹Sa in Fig. 6-20, does the collector-emitter
voltage increase, decrease, or remain the same for each of
these troubles?
a. 470 k is shorted
b. 470 k2 is open
с. 820 is shorted
d. 820.N is open
e. No base supply voltage
f. No collector supply
219
Critical Thinking
6-18 What is the de alpha of a transistor that has a current
gain of 200?
6-19 What is the current gain of a transistor with a de alpha of
0.994?
6-20 Design a CE circuit to meet these specifications: VBB5
V, Vcc = 15 V, hFE = 120, lc= 10 mA, and Vce = 7.5 V.
8-21 Fig. 6-21, what value base resistor would be needed so
Vct 6.7 V?
6-22 A 2N3904 has a power rating of 350 mW at room
temperature (25°C). If the collector-emitter voltage is
10 V, what is the maximum current that the transistor
can handle for an ambient temperature of 50°C?
6-23 Suppose we connect an LED in series with the 820 of
Fig. 6-20. What does the LED current equal?
6-24 What is the collector-emitter saturation voltage of a
2N3904 when the collector/current is 50 mA? Use the
data sheet.
Up-Down Analysis
Use Fig. 6-22 for the remaining problems. Assume increases of
approximately 10 percent in the independent variable, and use
the second approximation ofthe transistor. A response should
be an N (no change) if the change in a dependent variable is so
small that you would have difficulty measuring it.
6-25 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled VBB. Then answer the following question as
simply and directly as possible. What effect does an
increase in the base supplyvoltage have on the
dependent variables of the circuit?
6-26 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Voc. Then summarize your findings in one or
two sentences.
6-27 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Rg. List the dependent variables that
decrease. Explain whythese variables decrease, using
Ohm's law oro similar basic ideas.
6-28 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Ro List the dependent variables that show no
change. Explain why these variables show no change.
6-29 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Bae. List the dependent variables that
decrease. Explain why these variables decrease.
Figure 6-22 Up-down analysis.
220
 INDEPENDENT VARIABLES
A
By
470 k2 VBB
15 V T
V.BB
VA
Vcc
Bae
8A
B
C. Rc D
1 k52
Pde= 100
上
Vcc
15 V
UP-DOWN ANALYSIS
DEPENDENT VARIABLES
Vc VD 1B 论 PB PC PD
Chapter 6
Job Interview Questions
1. I want you to draw an npn transistor showing the n and p
regions. Theni want you to bias the transistor properly and
tell me how it works.
2. Draw a set of collector curves. Then, usingthese curves,
show me where the four operating regions of a transistor
are.
3. Draw the two equivalent circuits (ideal and.second
approximation) to represent a transistor thai is operating in
the active region. Then, tell me when and how you would
use these circuits to calculate the transistor currents and
voltages....
4.
5. When looking at a schematic diagram that shows upn and
pnp transistors, how can you identify each type? How can.
you tell the direction of electron (or cony onveritional) flow?
6. Name atest instrument that can display a
a set of collector
curves, le versus Vcs for a transistor.
7. What is the formula for transistor power ver dissipation?
Knowing this relationship; where on thene load line would
you expect the power dissipation to be maximum?:
8. What are the three currents in a transis sistor, and. how are.
they related?
9. Draw an npn and a pnp transistor. Label el all currents and
Draw a transistor circuit with a CE connection. Now, what
kind of troubles can you get with a circuit like this and
what measurements would you make to isolate each
show directions of flow.
trouble?
10. Transistors may be connected in any of the following
configurations: common emitter, commor
on collector, and
common base.Which is the most common configuration?
Self-Test Answers
1. b 11. a 21:
2. a 12.
3. d
13.
4. a
14.
a
p
q
22. b
23.
24.
5. c 15. a 25.
a
3
a
6. a 16. b 26. ວ
7. b 17. d 27.
p
8. b 18.
Q
9. b 19. a
10. 20. a 30.
28. с
29. a
a
Practice Problem Answers
6-1 Bde200
6-2 c= 10 mA
6-5 1g= 13.7 µA;
Ic=4.11 mA;
Vce = 1.78 V;
Pp7.32 mM
1в = 16.6 μА;
Ic= 5.89 mA;
Bdc 355
6-10 Ideal: 18 + 14.9 4.9 μА
1c= 1,49 mA;
VcE = 9.6 V
Second: Ig =
ic= 1.34 mA;
VcE = 10.2 V
13.4 MA;
6-12 Pp(max)= 375 mW. Not within the
safety factor of 2.
6-3 74.1 μA
6-6 6-4. V= 0.7 V;
в= 33 μА;
c = 6.6 mA
Bipolar Junction Transistors 221
hapte 7 Transistor
Fundamentals
There are two basic ways to set up the operating point of a transistor:
base bias and emitter bias. Base bias produces a fixed value of base
current, whereas emitter bias produces a fixed value of emitter
current. Base bias is most useful in switching circuits, whereas emitter
bias is predominant in amplifying circuits. This chapter discusses base
bias, emitter bias, switching circuits, and optoelectronic circuits.
Chapter Outline
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be
able to:
State why base bias does not work.
well in amplifying circuits.
Identify the saturation point and the
cutoff point for a given base-biased
circuit.
Calculate the Q point for a given
base-biased circuit.
7-1 Variadons in Current Gain
Draw an emitter bias circuit and
7-2 The Load Line explain why it works well in
amplifying circuits..
7-3 The Operating Point
7-4 Recognizing Saturation
Demonstrate how to do out-ofcircuit and in-circuit transistor tests.
7-5 The Transistor Switch
7-6 Emitter Bias
7-7 LED Drivers
7-8 The Effect of Small Changes
7-9 Troubleshooting
7-10 More Optoelectronic Devices
Vocabulary
amplifying circuit
base bias
hard saturation
load line
correction factor phototransistor
soft saturation
switching circuit
two-state circuit
cutoff point
quiescent point
emitter bias saturation point
223
GOOD TO KNOW
The symbol hrE represents the
forward current transfer ratio in
the common-emitter configurátion.
The symbol hE is a hybrid (h)-
parameter symbol. The h-parameter
system is the most common system
in use today for specifying
transistor parameters.
7-1 Variations in Current Gain
The current gain Bae of a transistor depends on three factors: the transistor, the colléctor current, and the temperature. For instance, when you replace a transistor
with another of the same type, the current gain usually changes. Likewise, if the
collector current or temperature changes, the current gain will change.
Worst and Best Case
As a concrete example, the data sheet of a 2N3904 lists a minimum hFE of 100 and
a maximum of 300 when the temperature is 25°C and the collector current is
10 mA. If we build thousands of circuits with 2N3904s, some of the transistors
will have a current gain as low as 100 (worst case), and others will have a current
gain as high as 300 (best case).
Figure 7-1 shows the graphs of a 2N3904 for the worst case (minimum
hFE). Look at the middle curve, the current gain for an ambient ent temperature of
25°C. When the collector current is 10 mA, the current gain is 100, the worst case
for a 2N3904. (In the best case, a few 2N3904s have a current gain of 300 at
10 mA and 25°C.)
Effect of Current and Temperature
at When the temperature is 25°C (the middle curve), the current gain is 50
0.1 mA. As the current increases from 0.1 mA to 10 mA, hFE increases to a maximum of 100. Then, it decreases to less than 20 at 200 mA.
Also notice the effect of temperature. When the temperature decreases,
the current gain is less (the bottom curve). On the other hand, when the temperature increases, hFE increases over most of the current range (the top curve).
Main Idea
As you can see, transistor replacement, collector-current changes, or temperature
changes can produce large changes in hFE or Bae. At a given temperature, a 3:1
change is possible when atransistor is replaced. When the temperature varies, an
additional 3:1 variation is possible. And when the current varies, more than a 3:1
variation is possible. In summary, the 2N3904 may have a current gain of less than
10 to more than 300. Because of this, any design that depends on a precise value
224
of current gain will fail in mass production.
Figure 7-1 Variation of current gain.
200
NFE
125°C
25°C 100
70
-55°C
50
30
20
10
0.1 1.0 10 100 2000c (mA)
Chapter 7
7-2 The Load Line
Figure 7-2a shows the CE connection discussed in Chap. 6. Given the values of
Ra and Bac, we can calculate collector current Ic and collector voltage VCE using
the methods of the preceding chapter.
Base Bias
is
The circuit of Fig. 7-2a is an example ofbase bias, which means setting up afixed.
value of base current. For instance, if Ra=1 MN, the base current
14.3 μA (second approximation). Even with transistor replacements and temperature changes, the base current remains fixed at approximately 14.3 μA under all
operating conditions.
IfBac = 100 in Fig. 7-2a, the collector current is approximately 1.43 mA
and the collector-emitter voltage is:
VCE=VcC - IcRc = 15 V (1.43 mA)(3 kn) = 10.7 V
Therefore, the quiescent or Q point in Fig. 7-2a is:
Ic = 1.43 mA and
Graphical Solution
VCE = 10.7 V
We can also find the point using a graphical solution based on the transistor
load line, a graph of Ioversus Vcr. In Fig. 7-2a, the collector-emitter voltage is.
given by:
VCE VCC- IcRc
Solving for Ic gives:
I YccVCE
Rc
(7-1)
If we graph this equation (Ic versus Vce), we will get a straight line. This line is
called the load line because it represents the effect of the load on Ic and VcE
For instance, substituting the values of Fig. 7-2a into Eq. (7-1) gives:
Figure 7-2 Base bias. (o) Circuit; (b) load line.
15 V
3 k
Hg
VCE 15 V
T
Transistor Fundamentals
(6)
15 V- VCE
Ic=
3 ΚΩ
SATURATION
POINT mA
31
2
(4)
CUTOFF
VCE
15 V
225
This equation is a linear equation; that is, its graph is a straight line. (Note: A linear
equation is any equation that can be reduced to the standard form of y = mx + b.)
Ifwe graph the foregoing equation on top of the collector curves, we get Fig. 7-2b.
The ends of the load line are the easiest to find. When VCE = 0 in the
load-line equation (the foregoing equation):
15 V Ic==5 mA
3 ΚΩ
The values, Ic = 5 mA and VCE 0, plot as the upper end of the load line in
Fig. 7-2b.
When Ic = 0, the load-line equation gives:
or
15V- VCE.
0
3 ΚΩ
VCE = 15 V
GOOD TO KNOW
When a transistor is saturated
further increases in base current
produce no further increases in
collector current.
The coordinates, Ic 0 and VCE = 15 Vplot as the lower end of the load line in
Fig. 7-2b.
Visual Summary of All Operating Points
Why is the load line useful? Because it contains every possible operating point for
the circuit. Stated another way, when the base resistance varies from zero to infinity, it causes In to vary, which makes Ic and VCE to vary over their entire ranges. If
you plot the Ic and VCE values for every possible Ia value, you will get the load
line. Therefore, the load line is a visual summary of all the possible transistor
operating points.
The Saturation Point
When the base resistance is too small, there is too muchcollector current, and the
collector-emitter voltage drops to approximately zero. In this case, the transistor
into saturation. This means that the collector current has increased to its
maximum possible value.
goes
The saturation point is the point in Fig. 7-2b where the load line intersects the saturation region of the collector curves. Because the collector-emitter
voltage VCE at saturation is very small, the saturation point is almost touching the
upper end of the load line. From now on, we will approximate the saturation point
as the upper end of the load line, bearing in mind that there is a slight error.
The saturation point tells you the maximum possible collector current for
the circuit. For instance, the transistor of Fig. 7-3a goes into saturation when the
collector current is approximately 5 mA. At this current, Vce has decreased to
approximately zero.
There is an easy way to find the current at the saturation point. Visualize
a short between the collector and emitter to get Fig. 7-3b. Then Vce drops to zero.
All the 15 V from the collector supply will be across the 3 kn. Therefore, the
current is:
15
Ic=5 mA
3 k2
You can apply this "mental short" method to any base-biased circuit.
Here is the formula for the saturation current in base-biased circuits:
ICGD) =Vcc
Rc
(7-2)
226 Chapter 7
Figure 7-3 Finding the ends ofthe load line. (o) Circuit; (b) calculating collector
saturation current; (e) calculating collector-emitter cutoff voltage.
15 VRB
VCE
3 k2
3 k52
T
15 V
수
AB
MENTAL
w
SHORT 15 V
15 V
(9)
3 kQ
MENTAL
OPEN
15 V
(c)
-
15 V
GOOD TO KNOW
A transistor is cut off when its:
collector current is zero.
This says that the maximum value of the collecto current equalsals the collector supply voltage divided by the collector resistance. It is nothing moreore than Ohm's law
applied to the collector resistor. Figure 7-3b is a visual reminder ofof this equation.
The Cutoff Point
The cutoff point is the point at which the load line intersects the cutoff region oof
the collector curves in Fig. 7-2b. Because the collector current at cutoff is very
small, the cutoff point almost touches the lower end of the load line. From now on,
we will approximate the cutoff point as the lower end of the load line.
The cutoff point tells you the maximum possible collector-emitter voltage for the circuit. In Fig. 7-3a, the maximum possible VCE is approximately 15 V,
the collector supply voltage.
There is a simple process for finding the cutoff voltage. Visualize the
transistor of Fig. 7-3a as an open between the collector and the emitter (see
Fig. 7-3c). Since there is no current through the collector resistor for this open
condition, all the 15 Vfrom the collector supply will appear between the collectoremitter terminals. Therefore, the voltage between the collector and the emitter
will equal 15 V:
VCE(cutoff) = Vcc (7-3)
Transistor Fundamentals
227
Example 7-1
What are the saturation current and the cutoff voltage in Fig. 7-4a?
SOLUTION Visualize a short between the collector and emitter. Then:
30 V
IC(sat) = 3κ=
= 10 mA
Next, visualize the collector-emitter terminals open. In this case:
VCE(cutoff) = 30 V
NESER
Figure 7-4 Load lines when colfector resistance n iss the th same. (a) With a collector supply of 30 V; (6) with a collector supply of 9V;
(c) load lines have same slope.
3 k
3 k2
VRR
RB
(a).
IC
10 mA
3 mA
+
30 V
VBB
9V
(c)
=
RB
w
30 V
CE
(9)
Example 7-2
Calculate the saturation and cutoff values for Fig. 7-4b. Draw the load lines for this and the preceding example.
SOLUTION With a mental short between the collector and emitter:
V6
IC(sat)= 3 mA 3κΩ
Amental open between the collector and emitter gives:
VCE(cutoff)6V
228
=
V6
Chapter 7
Figure 7-4c shows the two load lines. Changing the collector supply voltage while keeping the same collector resistance produces two load lines of the same slope but with different saturation and cutoff values.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-2 Find the saturation current and cutoff voltage ofFig. 7-2a if the collector resistor is 2 k and Vcc is 12 V.
Example 7-3
What are the saturation current and the cutoff voltage in Fig. 7-5a?
MultiSim
SOLUTION The saturation current is:
15 V ICisau ΚΩ = 15 mA
The cutoff voltage is:
VCE(cuioff)= 15 V
Figure 7-5 Load lines when collector voltage is the same. m (a) With a collector resistance of 1 kO; (b) with a collector resistance of 3 k; (c) smaller Re produces steeper slope.
VBа
Rg
(a)
15 mA
1 k12
w
Rg
15 V
+
V88
SMALLER RC
5 MA LARGER RC
VCE 15 V
(c)
(b)
3 kQ
15 V
Example 7-4
Calculate the saturation and cutoff values for Fig. 7-5b. Then, compare the load lines for this and the preceding example.
SOLUTION The calculations are as follows:
15 V
C(sai)= 5 mA 3ΚΩ
Transistor Fundamentals 229
and
VCE(cutoff) 15 V
Figure 7-5c shows the two load lines. Changing the collector resistor with the same collector supply voltage pгоduces load lines of different slopes but the same cutoff values. Also, notice that a smaller collector resistance produces a
larger slope (steeper or closer to vertical). This happens because the slope of the load line is equal to the reciprocal of the
collector resistance:
Slopc =
Rc
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-4 Using Fig. 7-5b, what happens to the circuit's load line if the collector resistor is changed
to 5 k?
7-3 The Operating Point
Every transistor circuit has a load line. Given any circuit, work out the saturation
current and the cutoff voltage. These values are plotted on the vertical and horizontal axes. Then draw a line through these two points to get the load line.
Plotting the Q Point
Figure 7-6a shows a base-biased circuit with a base resistance of 500 kN. We get
the saturation current and cutoff voltage by the process given earlier. First, visualize a short across the collector-emitter terminals. Then all the collector supply
voltage appears across the collector resistor, which means that the saturation current is 5 mA. Second, visualize the collector-emitter terminals open. Then there is
no current, and all the supply voltage appears across the collector-emitter terminals, which means that the cutoff voltage is 15 V. If we plot the saturation current
and cutoff voltage, we can draw the load line shown in Fig. 7-6b.
Figure 7-6 Calculating the Q point. (0) Circuit; (b) change in current gain changes O point.
230
15 V
500 k2
ww
(a)
Ic
MAT
3 k2 7
w
6
4.5 VCE =15 V 44
0
コー 3
2 Q 1.5
1
VCE
1.5 V 6V 10.5 V
15 V
(b)
Chapter 7
GOOD TO KNOW
Because the values of lc and Vee are
dependent on the values of beta in
a base-biased circuit, the cireuit is
said to be beta-dependent,
Let us keep the discussion simple for now by assuming an ideal transistor. This means that all the base supply voltage will appear across the base resistor. Therefore, the base current is:
15 V
IB =
500ΚΩ - 30μΑ
We cannot proceed until we have a value for the current gain. Suppose
the current gain of the transistor is 100, Then the collector current is:
Ic = 100(30 μA) = 3 mA
This current flowing through 3 k2 produces a voltage of 9 Vacross the collector
resistor. When we subtract this from the collector supply voltage, we get
voltage across the transistor. Here are the calculations:
VCE = 15 V (3 mA)(3 kN) =6V
the
By plotting 3 mA and 6V (the collector current and voltage), weget the operating
point shown on the load line of Fig. 7-6b. The operating point is labeled
because this point is often called the quiescent point. (Quiescent means quiet, still, or resting.)
Why the Q Point Varies
2
We assumed a current gain of 100. What happens if the current gain is 50? If it is
150? To begin, the base current remains the same because the current gain has no
effect on the base current. Ideally, the base current is fixed at 30 μA.When the
current gain is 50:
Ic = 50(30 μА) = 1.5 mA
and the collector-emitter voltage is:
VCE = 15 V - (1.5 mA)(3 ΚΩ) = 10.5 V
Plotting the values gives the low point Qr shown in Fig. 7-6b.
If the current gain is 150, then:
Ic = 150(30 μА) = 4.5 mA
and the collector-emitter voltage is:
Vce = 15 V- (4.5mA)(3 kΩ) = 1.5 V
Plotting these values gives the high point Qn point shown in Fig. 7-6b.
The three points of Fig. 7-6b illustrate how sensitive the operating
point of a base-biased transistor is to changes in Bac.When the current gain varies
from 50 to 150, the collector current changes from 1.5 to 4.5 mA. If the changes
in current gain were much greater, the operating point could be driven easily into
saturation or cutoff. In this case, an amplifying circuit would become useless
because of the loss of current gain outside the active region.
The Formulas
The formulas for calculating the point are as follows:
Transistor Fundamentals
VBB-VBE
IB= RB
Ic = BalB
VCE =VCC- IcRc
(7-4)
(7-5)
(7-6)
231
Example 7-5
Suppose the base resistance of Fig. 7-6a is increased to 1 MN. Whathappens to
the collector-emitter voltage if Bae is 100?
SOLUTION Ideally, the base current would decrease to 15 µA, the collector
current would decrease to 1.5 mA, and the collector-emitter voltage would
increase to:
VCE15 (1.5 mA)(3 k2) = 10.5 V
To a second approximation, the base current would decrease to 14.3 мА,
and the collector current would decrease to 1.43 mA. The collector-emitter
voltage would increase to:
VCE = 15- (1.43 mA)(3 k2) = 10.7 V
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-5 If the Bae value of Example 7-5 changed to 150
due to a temperature change, find the new value of VCE7-4 Recognizing Saturation
There are two basic kinds of transistor circuits: amplifying and switching. With
amplifying circuits, the point must remain in the active region under all operat
ing conditions. If it does not, the output signal will be distorted on the peakwher
saturation or cutoff occurs. With switching circuits, the point usually switches
between saturation and cutoff. How switching circuits work, what they do, and
why they are used will be discussed later.
Impossible Answers
Assume that the transistor of Fig. 7-7a has a breakdown voltage greater than 20 V.
Then, we know that it is not operating in the breakdown region. Furthermore, we
can tell at a glance that the transistor is not operating in the cutoff region because
of the biasing voltages. What is not immediately clear, however, is whether
the transistor is operating in the active region or the saturation region. It must be
operating in one of these regions. But which?
Figure 7-7 (o) Base-biased circuit; (b) load line.
232
10 V
100 k2
Pac
10 k
ww
50
구
(a)
20 V
Ic(sat)
(b)
Vcc
VCE
Chapter
Transistor Fundamentals
Troubleshooters and designers often use the following method to dete etermine whether a transistor is operating in the active region or the
non region.
Here are the steps in using the method:
1.. Assume that the transistor is operating in the active region.
2. Carry out the calculations for currents and voltages.
3. If an impossible result occurs in any calculation, the assumption is
false.
An impossible answer means that the transistor is saturated. Otherwise, the transistor is operating in the active region.
Saturation-Current Method
For instance, Fig. 7-7a shows a base-biased circuit. Start by calculating the saturation current:
=20V
IClsat) 10 k
2 mA
The base current is ideally 0.1 mA.Assuming a current gain of 50 as shown, the
collector current is:
Ic = 50(0.1 mA) 5 mA
The answer is impossible because the collector current cannot be greater than the
saturation current. Therefore, the transistor cannot be operating in the active
region; it must be operating in the saturation region.
Collector-Voltage Method
Suppose you want to calculate VCe in Fig. 7-7a. Then you can proceed like this:
The base current is ideally 0.1 mA.Assuming a current gain of 50 as shown
collector current is:
Ic 50(0.1 mA) = 5 mA
and the collector-emitter voltage is:
VCE 20 V (5 mA)(10 k) =-30 V
the
This result is impossible because the collector-emitter voltage cannot be negative.
So the transistor cannot be operating in the active region; it must be operating in
the saturation region.
Current Gain Is Less in Saturation Region
When you are given the current gain, it is usually for the active region. For
instance, the current gain of Fig. 7-7a is shown as 50. This means that the collector current will be 50 times the base current, provided the transistor is operating in
the active region.
When a transistor is saturated, the current.gain is less than the current
gain in the active region. You can calculate the saturated current gain as follows:
Bac(rat)= Csa)
IB
In Fig. 7-7a, the saturated current gain is
2 mA
Bdc(sat)
=20
0.1 mA
233
Hard Saturation
A designer who wants a transistor to operate in the saturation region under all
conditions often selects a base resistance that produces a current gain of 10.
This is called hard saturation, because there is more than enough base current
to saturate the transistor. For example, a base resistance of 50 kn in Fig. 7-7а
will produce a current gain of:
2 mA Bác = = 10
0.2mA
For the transistor of Fig. 7-7a, it takes only
Ig = 2mA =0.04 mA
50
to saturate the transistor. Therefore, a base current of 0.2 mA will drive the transistor deep into saturation.
Why does a designer use hard saturation? Recall that the current gain
changes with collector current, temperature variation, and transistor replacement.
To make sure that the transistor does not slip out of saturation atlow collector currents, low temperatures, and so on, the designer uses hard saturation to ensure
transistor saturation under all operating conditions.
From now on, hard saturation will refer to any design that makes the saturated current gain approximately 10. Soft saturation will refer to any design in
which the transistor is barely saturated, that is, in which the saturated current gain
is only a little less than the active current gain.
Recognizing Hard Saturation at a Glance
Here is how you can quickly tell whether a transistor is in hard saturation. Often,
the base supply voltage and the collector supply voltage are equal: VBB= Vcc.
When this is the case, a designer will use the 10: 1 rule, which says to make the
base resistance approximately 10 times as large as the collector resistance.
Figure 7-8a was designed by using the 10:1 rule. Therefore, whenever you see a circuit with a 10:1 ratio (RB to Rc), you can expect it to be
saturated.
Figure 7-8 (o) Hard saturation; (b) load line.
+10 V
k52
234
L0 V
10 ΚΩ
10,mA
오
Vout
Pd=50
c
0
b)
CE
10 V
Chapter 7
-Transistor Fundamentals
Example 7-6
Suppose the base resistance ofFig. 7-7a is increased to 1 MN. Is the transistor
still saturated?
SOLUTION Assume the transistor is operating in the active region, and see
whether a contradiction arises. Ideally, the base current is 10 Vdivided by 1 M,
or 10 μA. The collector current is 50 times 10 μA, or 0.5 mA. This current
produces 5 V across the collector resistor. Subtract 5 from 20 V to get:
VCE = 15 V
There is no contradiction here. If the transistor were saturated, we would have.
calculated a negative number or, at most, 0 V. Because we got 15 V, we know
that the transistor is operating in the active region.
Example 7-7
Suppose the collector resistance of Fig. 7-7a is decreased to 5 kn. Does the transistor remain in the saturation region?
SOLUTION Assume the transistor is operating in the active region, and see
whether a contradiction arises. We can use the same approach as in Example 7-6,
but for variety, let us try the second method.
Start by calculating the saturation value of the collector current. Visualize a short between the collector and the emitter. Then you can see that 20 V will
be across 5 kN. This gives a saturated collector current of:
IC(sat) 4 mA
The base current is ideally 10 Vdivided by 100 kn, or 0.1 mA. The collector
current is 50 times 0.1 mA, or 5 mA.
There is a contradiction. The collector current cannot be greater than
4 mAbecause the transistor saturates when Ic= 4mA. The only thing that
can change atthis point is the current gain. The base current is still 0.1 mA,
but the current gain decreases to:
4mA 40 Be(sa)0.1mA
This reinforces the idea discussed earlier. A transistor has two current
gains, one in the active region and another inthe saturation region. The second
is equal to or smaller than the first.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-7 If the collector resistance of Fig. 7-7a is
4.7 k2, what value of base resistor would produce hard saturation using the
10:1 design rule?
7-5 The Transistor Switch
Base bias is useful in digital circuits because these circuits are usually designed to
operate at saturation and cutoff. Because of this, they have either low output voltage or high output voltage. In other words, none of the points between saturation
235
236
and cutoff are used. For this reason, variations in the Q point don't matter, because
the transistor remains in saturation or cutoff when the current gain changes.
Here is an example of using a base-biased circuit to switch between saturation and cutoff. Figure 7-8a shows an example of a transistor in hard saturation. Therefore, the output voltage is approximately 0 V. This means the point
is at the upper end of the load line (Fig. 7-8b).
When the switch opens, the base current drops to zero. Because of this,
the collector current drops to zero. With no current through the 1 k2, allthe collector supply voltage wil wl appear across the collector-emitter terminals. There
fore, the output voltage rises to +10 V. Now, the
Q point is at the lower end of
load line (see Fig. 7-8b).
The circuit can have only two output voltages: 0 or +10 V. This is how
you can recognize a digital circuit. It has only two output levels: low or high. The
exact values of the two output voltages are not important. All that matters is that
you can distinguish the voltages as low or high.
Digital circuits are often called switching circuits because their Q point
switches between two points on the load line. In most designs, the two points are
saturation and cutoff. Another name often used is two-state circuits, referring to
the low and high outputs.
Example 7-8
The collector supply voltage of Fig. 7-8a is decreased to 5 V. What are the two
values of the output voltage? If the saturation voltage VCE(sat) is 0.15 V and the
collector leakage current ICEO is 50nA, what are the two values of the output
voltage?
SOLUTION The transistor switches between saturation and cutoff. Ideally,
the two values of output voltage are 0 and 5 V.The first voltage is the voltage
across the saturated transistor, and the second voltage is the voltage across the
cutoff transistor.
If you include the effects of saturation voltage and collector leakage
current, the output voltages are 0.15 and 5 V. The first voltage is the voltage
across the saturated transistor, which is given as O.15 V. The second voltage is
the collector-emitter voltage with 50nA flowing through 1 kn:
VCE =5V- (50 nA)(1 kn) = 4.99995 V
which rounds to 5 V.
Unless you are a designer, it is a waste of time to include the saturation
voltage and the leakage current in your calculations of switching circuits. With
switching circuits, all you need is two distinct voltages: one low and the other
high. It doesn't matter whether the lowvoltage is 0, 0.1, 0.15 V, and so on. Likewise, it doesn't matter whether the high voltage is 5, 4.9, or 4.5 V.All that usually matters in the analysis of switching circuits is that you can distinguish the
low.voltage from the high voltage.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-8
 if the circuit of Fig. 7-8a used 12
Vfor its
collector and base supply voltage, what are the two values of switched output
voltage? (VCE(sat) = 0.15 V and IcEO = 50 nA)
Chapter 7
Transistor Fundamentals
7-6 Emitter Bias
Digital circuits are the type of circuits used in computers. In this area, base bias
and circuits derived from base bias are useful. But when it comes to amplifiers, we
need circuits whose points are immune to changes in current gain.
Figure 7-9 shows emitter bias. As you can see, the resistor has been
moved from the base circuit to the emitter circuit. That one change makes all the
difference in the world. The Qpoint of this new circuit is now rock-solid. When.
the current gain changes from 50 to 150, the point shows almost no ent
along the load line.
Basic Idea
The base supply vołtage is now applied directly to the base. fore, a troubleshooter will read VBB between the base and ground. The emitter is no lo
grounded. Now the emitter is above the ground and has a voltage given by:
VE VBB- VBE (7-7)
IfVBB is more than 20 times VBE, the ideal approximation will be accurate. If VBB
is less than 20 times VBE, you may want to use the second approximation. Otherwise your error will be more than 5 percent.
Finding the Q Point
Let us analyze the emitter-biased circuit of Fig. 7-10. The base supply ply voltage is
only 5 V, so we use the second approximation. The voltage between the base and
ground is 5 V. From now on, we refer to this base-to-ground voltage as the base
voltage, or VB. The voltage across the base-emitter terminals is 0.7 V.V. We refer to
this voltage as the base-emitter voltage, or VBE.
Figure 7-9 Emitter bias.
VBB
> ay
Rc
Figure 7-10 Finding the Qpoint
1 k52
TVcc.
P =100
15 V
5V.
2.2 k2
237
The voltage between the emitter and ground is called the emitter voltage.
It equals:
Vg = 5 V -0.7V = 4.3 V
This voltage is across the emitter resistance, so we can use Ohm's law to find the
emitter current:
4.3V
Ig = 1.95 mA
2.2ΚΩ
This means that the collector current is 1.95 mA to a close approximation.
this collector current flows through the collector resistor, it produces à voltage
drop of 1.95 V. Subtracting this from the collector supply voltage gives
voltage between the collector and ground:
When
the
Vc = 15V - (1.95 mA)(1 κΩ) = 13.1 V
From now on, we will refer to this collector-to-ground voltage as the collector
voltage.
This is the voltage a troubleshooter would measure when testing a transisGOOD TO KNOW
Because the values of Ic and Vce are.
not affected by the value of beta in
an emitter-biased circuit, this type
of circuit is said to be betaindependent.
tor circuit. One lead of the voltmeter would be connected to the collector, and the
other lead would be connected to ground. If you want the collector-emitter voltage,
you have to subtract the emitter voltage from the collector voltage as follows:
VCE.= 13.1 V - 4.3 V = 8.8 V
So, the emitter-biased circuit of Fig. 7-10 has a Q point with these coordinates:
Ic = 1.95 mA and VCE 8.8 V.
The collector-emitter voltage is the voltage used for drawing load lines
and for reading transistor data sheets. As a formula:
Vcg = Vc-VE
Circuit Is Immune to Changes in Current Gain
(7-8)
Here is why emitter bias excels. The point of an emitter-biased circuit is
immune to changes in current gain. The proof lies in the process used to analyze
the circuit. Here are the steps we used earlier:
1. Get the emitter voltage.
2. Calculate the emitter current.
3. Find the collector voltage.
4. Subtract the emitter from the collector voltage to get VCEAt no time do we need to use the current gain in the foregoing process. Since we
don't use it to find the emitter current, collector current, and so on, the exact value
of current gain no longer matters.
By moving the resistor from the base to the emitter circuit, we force the
base-to-ground voltage to equal the base supply voltage. Before, almost all this
supply voltage was across the base resistor, setting up a fixed base current. Now,
all this supplyvoltage minus 0.7 V is across the emitter resistor, setting up a fixed
emitter current.
Minor Effect of Current Gain
The current gain has a minor effect on the collector current. Under all operating
conditions, the three currents are related by:
Ig= Ic + Iв
which can be rearranged as:
I=1c+1c
Bdc
238
Chapter 7
Transistor Fundamentals
Solve this for the collector current, and you get:
Ic= Bac
Bac +1 (7-9)
The quantity that multiplies IE is called a correction factor. It tells you how Ic
differs from Is.When the current gain is 100, the correction factor is:
Bdc 100 0.99 Bdc +1 100 +1
This means that the collector current is equal to 99 percent of the emitter current.
Therefore, we get only a 1 percent error when weve iignore the correction factor and
say that the collector current equals the emitter current.
Example 7-9 IIMultiSim
What is thevoltage between the collector and ground in the MultiSim Fig. 7-11?
Between the collector and the emitter?
SOLUTION The base voltage is 5 V. The emitter voltage is 0.7 V lessss than
this, or:
Vg =5V-0.7 V = 4.3 V
II MultiSim Figure 7-11 MeterValues.
XMM2
2ko
Q1
2N3904
XMM1
15
5 V
Σ1ΚΩ
Multimeter XMM1 Multimeter XMM2
29 6463
A Ω dB A
A BP
Set... Set..
239
240
This voltage is across the emitter resistance, which is now 1 kn. Therefore, the
emitter current is 4.3 V divided by 1 kfl, or:
4=01137
43 V 4.3 mA
1ΚΩ
The collector current is approximately equal to 4.3 mA.When this current flows
through the collector resistance (now 2 kn), it produces avoltage of:
IcRc (4.3 mA)(2 k) = 8.6 V
When you subtract this voltage from the collector supply voltage, you get:
Vc = 15 V - 8.6V = 6.4 V
This voltage value is very close to the value measured by the MultiSim meter.
Remember, this is the voltage between the collector and ground. This is what
you would measure when troubleshooting.
Unless you have a voltmeter with a high input resistance and a floating
ground lead, you should not attempt to connect a voltmeter directly between the
collector and the emitter because this may short the emitter to ground. If you
want to know the value of VCE, you should measure the collector-to-ground voltage, then measure the emitter-to-ground voltage, and subtract the two. In this
case:
VCE =6.4 V - 4.3 V = 2.1 V
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-9 MultiStm Decrease the base supply voltage
of Fig. 7-11 to 3 V. Predict and measure the newvalue of VCE.
7-7 LED Drivers
You have learned thatbase-biased circuits set up a fixed value of base current, and
emitter-biased circuits set up a fixed value ofemitter current. Because of the problem with current gain, base-biased circuits are normally designed to switch
between saturation and cutoff, whereas emitter-biased circuits are usually designed to operate in the active region.
In this section, we discuss two circuits that can be used as LED drivers.
The first circuit uses base bias, and the second circuit uses emitter bias. This will
give you a chance to see how each circuit performs in the same application.
Base-Biased LED Driver
The base current is zero in Fig. 7-12a, which means that the transistor is at cutoff.
When the switch of Fig. 7-12a closes, the transistor goes into hard saturation.
Visualize a short between the collector-emitter terminals. Then the collector supply voltage (15 V) appears across the series connection of the 1.5 kn and the
LED. Ifwe ignore thevoltage drop across the LED, the collector current is ideally
10 mA. But if we allow 2 Vacross the LED, then there is 13 Vacross the 1.5 kn,
and the collector current is 13 V divided by 1.5 kn, or 8.67 mA.
Chapter 7
Transistor Fundamentals
Figure 7-12 (0) Base-biased; (b) emitter-biased.
1.5 k2
15 V
15 V.
15 k2
w
15 V
)(a)
(9)
>
1.5 k52
20 V
There is nothing wrong with this circuit. It makes a fine LELED driver
because it is designed for hard saturation, where the current gain doesn''t matter.
If you want to change the LED current in this circuit, you can changege either the
collector resistance or the collector supply voltage. The base resistance is made
10 times larger than the collector resistance because we want hard satu
when the switch is closed.
Emitter-Biased LED Driver
The emitter current is zero in Fig. 7-12b, which means that the transistor is at cutoff. When the switch of Fig. 7-12b closes, the transistor goes into the active
region. Ideally, the emitter voltage is 15 V. This means that we get an emitter current of 10 mA. This time, the LED voltage drop has no effect. It doesn't matter
whether the exact LED voltage is 1.8, 2, or 2.5 V. This is an advantage of the
emitter-biased design over the base-biased design. The LED current is independent of the LED voltage. Another advantage is that the circuit doesn't require a
collector resistor.
The emitter-biased circuit of Fig. 7-12b operates in the active region
when the switch is closed. To change the LED current, you can change the base
supplyvoltage or the emitter resistance. For instance, if you vary the base supply
voltage, the LED current varies in direct proportion.
241
Example 7-10
We want 25 mA of LED current when the switch is closed in Fig. 7-12b. How can we do it?
SOLUTION One solution is to increase the base supply. We want 25 mA to flow through the emitter resistance of 1.5
k. Ohm's law tells us that the emitter voltage has to be:
VE = (25 mA)(1.5 kΩ) = 37.5 V
Ideally, VBB = 37.5 V. To a second approximation, VBB = 38.2 V. This is a bit high for typical power supplies. But the
solution is workable if the particular application allows this high a supply voltage.
A supply voltage of 15 V is common in electronics. Therefore, a better solution in most applications is to decrease
the emitter resistance. Ideally, the emitter voltage will be 15 V, and we want 25 mAthrough the emitter resistor. Ohm's
law gives:
15 V
RE =
= 600 Ω
25mA
The nearest standard value with a tolerance of 5 percent is 620 . If we use the second approximation, the resistance is:
Rg= 14.3V 572 0 25mA
The nearest standard value is 560 2.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 7-10 In Fig. 7-12b, what value of Rg is needed to produce an LED current of 21 mA?
Example 7-11
What does the circuit of Fig. 7-13 do?
Figure 7-13 Base-biased LED driver.
242
DC
INPUT
R
A
RED
D 電
D2
FUSE DC
OUTPUT
A
GREEN
Chapter 7
SOLUTION This is a blown-fuse indicator for a dc power supply. When the fuse is intact, the transistor is base-biasedd into
saturation. This turms on the green LED to indicate that all is OK. Thevoltage between point A and ground is approxoximately
2 V. This voltage is not enough to run on the red LED. The two series diodes (D₁ and D₂) prevent the red LED fronm turning
on because they require a drop of 1.4 V to conduct.
When the fuse blows, the transistor goes into cutoff, turning off the green LED. Then, the voltage ofpoint A is pulled up toward the supply voltage. Now there is enough voltage to turn on the two series diodes and the red LED too indicate a blown fuse. Summary Table 7-1 illustrates the differences between base bias and emitter bias.
Summary Table 7-1 Base Bias Vs. Emitter Bias
15 V 15 V Circuit
5V
470 ks2
W
212 2 4.7 k2
5V
<
222
Chararacteris
Bdc = 100
Bde =300
Modes used
Applications.
Fixed base current
в =9.5 µA
Ic915 мА
ІВ- 9.15 рА
Ic=2.74 mA
Cutoff and saturation
Switching/digital circuits
Fixed emitter current
ІB = 21.5 μА
lE= 2.15 mA
1в =7.17 мА
Ig= 2.15 mA
Active or linear
Controlled Ic drivers and amplifiers
Transistor Fundamentals
7-8 The Effect of Small Changes
Earlier chapters introduced up-down analysis, which is helpful to anyone tryin yng to
understand circuits. For the up-down analysis of Fig. 7-14, a small change means
a change of approximately 10 percent (the tolerance of some resistors).
For instance, Fig. 7-14 shows an emitter-biased circuit with these circuit
values:
VBB =2V Vcc = 15 V RE = 130 U Rc = 470U
243
244
Figure 7-14 Up-down analysis.
Rc
+10.3 V 4702
+2 V
+15 V
VBB
PP =100
+1.3 V
SRE
130
び
Vcc
Table 7-1 Up-Down Analysis
VE в VC VCE
VB8 increase ប
Vcc increase
RE increase D
Rc increase
N N N N G a
N a
N N N N
ດ
D D
ก
D
These are the independent variables of the circuit (often called the circuit values)
because their values are independent of one another; changing onen of them has no
effect on the others.
The remaining voltages and currents are as follows:
VE = 1.3 V Vc = 10.3 V IB99 μA Ic = 9.9 mA IE 10 mA
Each of these is called a dependent variable because its value may change when
one of the independent variables changes. If you really understand how a circuit
works, you can tell whether a dependent variable will increase, decrease, or
remain the sáme when an independent variable increases.
For instance, suppose VBB increases by about 10 percent in Fig. 7-14.
Will Ve increase, decrease, or remain the same? It will decrease. Why? Because
an increase in the base supply voltage will increase the emitter current, increase
the collector current, increase the voltage across the collector resistor, and
decrease the collector voltage.
Table 7-1 shows the effects of small increases in the independent variables of Fig. 7-14. We use U for up, D for down, and Nfor no change (change of
less than 1 percent). These results assume the second approximation. By studying
this table and asking why the changes occur, you can improve your understanding
of how this circuit works.
7-9 Troubleshooting
Many things can go wrong with a transistor. Since it contains two diodes, exceeding any of the breakdown voltages, maximum currents, or power ratings can damage either or both diodes. The troubles may include shorts, opens, high leakage
currents, and reduced Bac.
Chapter 7
Transistor Fundamentals
Figure 7-15 npn transistor.
C
E
N
B P
N
=
C
F
Out-of-Circuit Tests
A
transistor is commonly tested using a DMM set to the diode test range.
Figure 7-15 shows how an npn transistor resembles two back-to-back diodes.
Each pn junction can be tested for normal forward and reverse biased readings.
The collector to emitter can also be tested and should result in an overrange indication with either DMM polarity connection. Since a transistor has three leads,
there are six DMMpolarity connections possible. These are shown in Fig. 7-16a.
Notice that only two polarity connections result in approximately a 0.7 V reading.
Also important to note here is that the base lead is the only connection common to
both 0.7 V readings and it requires a (+) polarity connection. This is also shown in
Fig. 7-16b.
Apnp transistor can be tested using the same technique. As shown in
Fig.7-17, the pnptransistor also resembles two back-to-back diodes. Again, using
the DMM in the diode test range, Fig. 7-18a and 7-18b show the results for a
normal transistor.
Many DMMs have a special Bae or hFEtest function. By placing the transistor's leads into the proper slots, the forward current gain is displayed. This currentgain isfor a specified base current or collector current and VCr. You can check
the DMM's manual for the specific test condition.
Another way to test transistors is with an ohmmeter. You can begin by
measuring the resistance between the collector and the emitter. This should be
very high in both directions because the collector and emitter diodes are back to
Figure 7-16 NPN DMM Readings (o) Polarity connections; (b) pn junct nction readings
Reading
B E 0.7 0.7
3
B OL
B C 0.7
BC B OL
C E OL
0.7
C
70
(a)
C
A
E
(b)
סד
245
246
Figure 7-17 PNPtransistor.
C
C
3
B
d
P
=
B
C
Figure 7-18 PNPV DMM readings (a) pola olarity connections; (b) pn junction readings.
C
Readings
B OL
0.7
A
E B 0,7
B C B OL
C 0.7
C E
10
0.7
C OL
(a)
(9)
back in series. One of the most common troubles is a collector-emitter short, produced by exceeding the power rating. If you read zero to a few thousand ohms in
either direction, the transistor is shorted and should be replaced.
Assuming that the collector-emitter resistance is very high in both directions (in megohms), you can read the reverse and forward resistances of the collector diode (collector-base terminals) and the emitter diode (base-emitter terminals). You should get a high reverse/forward ratio for both diodes, typically more
than 1000:1 (silicon). If you do not, the transistor is defective.
Even if the transistor passes the ohmmeter tests, it still may have some
faults. After all, the ohmmeter tests each transistor junction only under dc conditions. You can use a curve tracer to look for more subtle faults, such as too much
leakage current, lowBac, or insufficient breakdown voltage. Atransistor being tested
with a curve tracer is shown in Fig. 7-19. Commercial transistor testers are also
available; these check the leakage current, current gain Bac, and other quantities.
In-Circuit Tests
The simplest in-circuit tests are to measure transistor voltages with respect to
ground. For instance, measuring the collector voltage Vcand the emitter voltage.
VE is a good start. The difference Ve - VEshould be more than 1 Vbut less than
Vcc. If the reading is less than 1 V in an amplifier circuit, the transistor may be
shorted. If the reading equals Vcc, the transistor may beopen.
The foregoing test usually pins down a dc trouble if one exists. Many people include a test of VBE, done as follows: Measure the base voltage VB and the
Chapter 7
Figure 7-19 Transistor curve tracer test courtesy of Tektronix.
會
Tektronix, ine. Reprinted with permission. All rights reserved. rese
Figure 7-20 (Repeated for referen rence.) Up-down analysis.
+2 V
Ac
+10.3 V 4700 +15 V
°Pd = 001
VBB
+1.3 V
RE
130 ດ
Transistor Fundamentals
Vcc
Temitter voltage VE. The difference of these readings is VBE, which should be 0.6 to
0.7 Vfor small-signal transistors operating in the active region. For powertransistors, VBE may be 1 Vor more because of the bulk resistance of the emitter diode. If.
the VBE reading is less than approximately 0.6 V, the emitter diode is not being forward-biased. The trouble could be in the transistor or in the biasing components.
Some people include a cutoff test, performed as follows: Short the baseemitter terminals with a jumper wire. This removes the forward bias on, the
emitter diode and should force the transistor into cutoff. The collector-to-ground
voltage should equal the collector supply voltage. If it does not, something is
wrong with the transistor or the circuitry.
Care should be taken when doing this test. If another device or circuit is
directly connected to the collector terminal, be sure that the increase in collectorto-ground voltage will not cause any damage.
A Table of Troubles
As discussed inChap. 6, a shorted component is equivalent to a resistance of zero,i
and an open component is equivalent to a resistance of infinity. For instance, the
emitter resistor may be shorted or open. Let us designate these troubles by REs and
REO, respectively. Similarly, the collector resistor may be shorted or open, symbolized byRcs and Rco, respectively.
When a transistor is defective, anything can happen. For instance, one or
both diodes may be internally shorted or open. We are going to limit the number
of possibilities to the most likely defects as follows: a collector-emitter short
(CECES) will represent all three terminals shorted together (base, collector, and
mitter), and a collector-emitter open (CEO) stands for all three terminals open. A
base-emitter open (BEO) means that the base-emitter diode is open, and a collectorbase open (CBO) means that the collector-base diode is open.
Table 7-2 shows a few of the troubles that could occur in a circuit like
HTSg. 7-20. The voltages were calculated by using the second approximation. When
the ccircuit is operating normally, you should measure a base voltage of 2 V, an
emitter voltage of 1.3 V, and a collector voltage of approximately 10.3 V. If the
247
Tab 7–2 | Troubles and Symptoms
Trou rouble VBr V. VE V VG V Comments
None 2 1.3 10.3 No trouble
RES 2 0 15 Transistor destroyed (CEO)
REO 2 1.3 15 No base or collector current
RCS 2 1.3 15
Rco 2 1.3 1.3
No VBB
0 0
15 Check supply and lead
No o Vcc
2 1.3 1.3 Check supply and lead
CES 2 2 2
Ail transistor terminals shorted
CEO 2 15 All transistor terminals open
BECO 2 15 Base-emitter diode open
C 2 1.3 15 Collector-base diode open
Figure 7-21 (a) Transistor with open
base; (b) equivalent circuit.
248
OPEN O-
(a)
(9)
+Vcc
2Rc
Q+Vcc
SHC
IDEAL
emit mitter resistor were shorted, +2 V would appear across the emitter diode. This
larg rge voltage would destroy the the transistor, possibly producing a collector-emitter
open. This trouble Res and its voltages are shown in Table 7-2.
Ifthe emitter resistor were open, there would be no emitter current. Furthermore, the collector current would be zero, and the collector voltage would
increase to 15 V. This trouble REo and its voltages are shown in Table 7-2. Continuing like this, we can get the remaining entries of the table.
Notice the entry for no Vcc. This is worth commenting on. Your initial
instinet might be that the collector voltage is zero, because there is no collector
supply voltage. But that is notwhat you will measure with a voltmeter. When you
connect a voltmeter between the collector and ground, the base supply will set up
small forward current through the collector diode in series with the voltmeter.
Since the base voltage is fixed at 2 V, the collector voltage is 0.7 Vless than this.
Therefore, the voltmeter will read 1.3 V between the collector and ground.
other words, the voltmeter completes the circuit to ground because the voltmeter
looks like a very large resistance in series with the collector diode.
7-10 More Optoelectronic Devices
In
By
As mentioned earlier, a transistor with an open base has a small collector current
consisting of thermally produced minority carriers and surface leakage.
exposing the collector junction to light, a manufacturer can produce aphototransistor, a device that has more sensitivity to light than a photodiode.
Basic Idea of Phototransistors
Figure 7-21a shows a transistor with an open base. As mentioned earlier, a small
collector current exists in this circuit. Ignore the surface-leakage component, and
Chapter 7
Figure 7-22 Phototransistor.
(a) Open base gives maximum sensitivity;
[b) variable base resistor changes
sensitivity; (c) typical phototransistor.
そ
(a)
(b)
+Vcc
7Rc
9+Vcc
C
concentrate on the thermally produced carriers in the collector diode. Visualize
the reverse current produced by these carriers as an ideal current source in parallel with the collector-base junction of an ideal transistor (Fig. 7-21b).
Because the base lead is open, all the reverse current is forced into
base of the transistor. The resulting collector current is:
ICEO= BaeR
the
where Ig is the reverse minority-carrier current. This says that the collector current
is higher than the original reverse current by afactor of Bас
The collector diode is sensitive to light as well as heat. In a phototransistor, light passes through a window and strikes the collector-base junction. As the
light increases, IR increases, and so does ICEO.
Phototransistor versus Photodiode
The main difference between a phototransistor and a photodiode is the current
gain Bdc. The same amount of light striking both devices produces Bae times more
current in a phototransistor than in a photodiode. The increased sensitivity of a
phototransistor is a big advantage over that of a photodiode.
Figure 7-22a shows the schematic symbol of a phototransistor. Notice
the open base. This is the usual way to operate a phototransistor. You can control
the sensitivity with a variable base return resistor (Fig. 7-22b), but the base is usually left open to get maximum sensitivity to light.
The price paid for increased sensitivity is reduced speed. Aphototransistor is more sensitive than a photodiode, but itot cannot turn on and off as fast. A
photodiode has typical output currents in microamperes and can switch on and off
in nanoseconds. The phototransistor has typical output currents in milliamperes
but switches on and off in microseconds. A typicał phototransistor is shown in
Fig. 7-22c.
Optocoupler
Figure 7-23a shows an LED driving a phototransistor. This is a much more sensitive optocoupler than the LED-photodiode discussed earlier. The idea ais straight
forward. Anychanges in Vs produce changes in the LED current, which changes
the current through the phototransistor. In turn, this produces a changing voltage
across the collector-emitter terminals. Therefore, asignal voltage is coupled from
the input circuit to the output circuit.
Again, the big advantage of an optocoupler is the electrical isolation
between the input and output circuits. Stated another way, the common for the
input circuit is different from the common for the output circuit. Because of this,
(c)
Brian Moeskau/Brian Moeskau Photography
Figure 7-23 (o) Optocouple oupler with LED and phototransistor; (b) optocoupler /C.
Sy
Transistor Fundamentals
(a)
Rc
=
T
Vcc
)b(
Brian Moeskau/Brian Moeskau Photography
249
250
GOOD TO KNOW
The optocoupler was actually act
designed as a solid-state
replacement for a meemechanical relay.
Functionaliy, the optoco ocoupler is
similar to its older menechanical
counterpart because
it offers а
high degree of isolatioion between
its input and its outpu tput terminals.
Some of the advantag cages of using
-an optocoupler versu rsus a mechanical
relay are faster operarting speeds,
no bouncing of contad contacts, smaller
size, no moving ng parts to stick, and
compatibility with t digital
microprocessor circu ciuits.
no conductive path exists between the two circuits. This means that you can
ground one of the circuits and float the other. For instance, the input circuit can be
grounded to the chassis of the equipment, while the common of the output side is
ungrounded. Figure 7-23b shows a typical optocoupler IC.
An Example
The 4N24 optocoupler of Fig. 7-24a provides isolation from the power line and
detects zero crossings of line voltage. The graph of Fig. 7-24b shows how the collector current is related to the LED current. Here is how you can calculate the peak
output voltage from the optocoupler:
The bridge rectifier produces a full-wave current through the LED.
Ignoring diode drops, the peak current through the LED is:
1.414(115 V)
= 10.2 mA ILED
16 ΚΩ
The saturated value of the phototransistor current is:
1C(sat)
= 20 = 2mA
10ΚΩ
Figure 7-24b shows the static curves of phototransistor current versus
LED current for three different optocouplers. With a 4N24 (top curve), an LED
current of 10.2 mA produces a collector current of approximately 15 mAwhen the
load resistance is zero. In Fig. 7-24a, the phototransistor current never reaches
15 mAbecause the phototransistor saturates at 2 mA. In other words, there is more
Figure 7-24 (a) Zero-crossing detector; (b) optocouple
pler curves; (c) output of detector.
16 k
+20 V
cMA
100
40
115 V ac
10 E4N24
4
4N22-
4N23
0.4
0.1
0.04
0.01
0.1 0.4 1 4 10 40 100
ILED, MA
(9)
(a)
V0=
4N24
+20 V
>
10 ko
OVout
OUTPUT
LINE
Chapter 7
rent is than enough LED current to produce saturation. Since the peak LED curre
10.2 mA, the transistor is saturated during most of the cycle. At this time, the
output voltage is approximately zero, as shown in Fig. 7-24c.
The zero crossings occur when the line voltage is changing polarity,
from positive to negative, or vice versa. At a zero crossing, the LED currennt drops
to zero. At this instant, the phototransistor becomes an open circuit, and thehe out
put voltage increases to approximately 20 V, as indicated in Fig. 7-24c. Asyou
an
see, the output voltage is near zero most of the cycle. At the zero crossings, it
increases rapidly to 20 V and then decreases to the baseline.
A circuit like Fig. 7-24a is useful because it does not require a transformer to provide isolation from theline. Thephotocoupler takes care of this. Furthermore, the circuit detects zero crossings, desirable in applications where you
want to synchronize some other circuit to the frequency of the line voltage.
Summary
SEC. 7-1 VARIATIONS IN
CURRENT GAIN
The current gain of a transistor is an
unpredictable quantity. Because of
manufacturing tolerances, the current
gain of a transistor may vary over as
much as a 3: 1 range when you change
from one transistor.to another of the
same type. Changes in the temperature
and the collector current produce
additional variations in the de gain.
SEC. 7-2 THE LOAD LINE
The dcload line contains all the possible de
operating points of a transistor circuit. The
upper end ofthe load line is called
saturation, and the lower end is called
cutoff. The key step in finding the saturation
curent is to visualize a short between the
collector and the emitter. The keystep to
finding the cutoffvoltage is to visualize an
open between the collector and emitter.
SEC. 7-3 THE OPERATING POINT
The operating point of the transistor is on
the de load line. The exact location ofthis
point is determined by the collector
current and the collector-emitter voltage.
With base bias, the Qpoint moves
whenever any of the circuit values change.
SEC. 7-4 RECOGNIZING
SATURATION
The idea is to assume that the npn
transistor is operating in the active region.
If this leads to a contradiction (such as
negative collector-emitter voltage or
collector current greater than saturation
current), then you know that the
transistor is operating in the saturation
region. Another way to recognize
saturation is by comparing the base
resistance to the collector resistance.
If the ratio is in the vicinity of 10:1,
the transistor is probably
saturated.
SEC. 7-5 THE TRANSISTOR
SWITCH
Base bias tends to use the transistor as a
switch. The switching action is between
cutoff and saturation. This type of
operation is useful in digital circits.
Another name for switching circuits is
two-state circuits.
SEC..7-6 EMITTER BIAS
Emitter bias is virtually immune to
changes in current gain. The process for
analyzing emitter bias is to find the
emitter voltage, emitter current,
collector voltage, and collector-emitter
voltage. Ail you need for this process is
Ohm's law.
SEC. 7-7 LED DRIVERS
A base-biased LED driver uses a saturated
or cutoff transistor to control the current
through an LED. An emitter-biased LED
driver uses se the active region and cutoff
to control the current through
the LED.
SEC. 7-8 THE EFFECT OF SMALL
CHANGES
Useful to both troubleshootèrs and
designers is the ability to predict the
direction of change for a dependent
voltage or current when one of the circuit
values changes. When you can do this,
you can better understand what happens
for different troubles and can more easily
analyze circuits.
SEC. 7-9 TROUBLESHOOTING
You can use a DMM or ohmmeter to test
a transistor. This is best done with the
transistor disconnected from the circuit.
When the transistor is in the circuit with
the power on, you can measure its
voltages, which are clues to possible
troubles.
SEC. 7-10 MORE
OPTOELECTRONIC
DEVICES
Because of its Bae, the phototransistor is
more sensitive to light than a photodiode.
Combined with an LED, the phototransistor
gives us a more sensitive optocoupler. The
disadvantage with the phototrarsistor
is that it responds more slowly to
changes in light intensity than
a photodiode.
Transistor Fundamentals 251
De
(7-1) Load-line halysis:
IC Rc
wo+Vcc
VCE
(7-2) Saturation current (base bias):
+ o
Rc
wo+Vco cc
C(sa C(sat)
(7-3) Cutoff voltage (base bias)
Wo+Vcc
(7-4) Base curr urrent:
RB
+VBB VBB WW
(7-5) Current gain:
VCE(cutoff)
Pdo
+
Student Assignments
+
=이 VCCVCE
Rc
Vcc
C(sat)= Rc
VCE(Ccutoff) =Vcc
(7-6) Collector-emitter voltage:
Re
wO+Vcc
+ow VCE
(7-7) Emitter voltage:
+ow
+V88
VBE
O+VE
(7-8) Collector-emitter voltage:
+ow
CV+
VCE
O+VE
B=
VBBVBE
R8
(7-9) Insensitivity of /c to Bde
Ic
Pdc
Ic= BacIB
VCE =. Vcc-IeRe
VE = VBB-VBE
VCE = VC VE
Bc l
Bdc +1
1. The current gain of atransistor is
defined as the ratio of the
collector. current to the
a. Base current
b. Emitter current
c. Supply current
d. Collector current
2. The graph of current gain versus
collector current indicates that
the current gain
a. Is constant
b. Varies slightly
c. Varies significantly
d. Equals the coliector current
divided by the base current
3: When the collector current
increases, what does the current
gain do?
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Any of the above
252
Chapter 7
4. As the temperature increases, the
current gain
a. Decreases
b. Remains the same
c. Increases
d. Can be any of the above
5. When the base resistor increases,
the collector voltage will probably
a. Decrease
b. Stay the same
c. Increase
d. Do all of the above
6. If the base resistor is very small,
the transistor will operate in the
a. Cutoff region
b. Active region
c. Saturation region
d. Breakdown region
12. Suppose the base resistor is open.
The Q point will be
a. In the middle of the load line
b. At the upper end ofthe load line
c. At the lower end of the load line
d. Off the load line
13. If the base supply voltage is
disconnected, the collectoremitter voltage will equal
a. O V
b. 6V
c. 10.5 V
d. Collector supply voltage
14. If the base resistor has zero
20. A circuit with a fixed emitter
current is called
a. Base bias
b. Emitter bias
c. Transistor bias
d. Two-supply bias
21. The first step in analyzing
emitter-based circuits is to find:
the
a. Base current
b. Emitter voltage
c. Emitter current
d. Collector current
If the current gain is unknown in
an emitter-biased circuit, you
cannot calculate the
a. Emitter voltage
b. Emitter current
22.
resistance, the transistor will
probably be
a. Saturated
b. In cutoff
c. Destroyed
7. Ignoring the bulk resistance of the
collector diode, the colectoremitter saturation voltage is
d. None of the above
15. If the collector resistor opens in a
base-biased circuit, the load line
23.
collector voltage is
a. 0
a. Low
c. Collector current
d. Base current
If the emitter resistor is open, the
b. A few tenths of avolt
c. 1V
d. Supply voltage
will become
a. Horizontal
b. Vertical
c. Useless
d. Flat
16. The collector current is 1.5 mA. If
8. Three different Q points are the current gain is 50, the base
shown on a load line. The upper
current is
Qpoint represents the а. 3 μА
b. 30 μA
с. 150 μА
d. 3 mA
a. Minimum current gain
b. Intermediate current gain
d. Cutoff point
C. Maximum current gain
9. If a transistor operates at the
middle of the load line, a decrease
in the base resistance will move
the Q point
a. Down c. Nowhere
b. Up d. Off the load fine
10. If a transistor operates at the
middle of the load line, a decrease
in the current gain will move the
Q point
a. Down
b. Up
c. Nowhere
d. Off the load line
11. If the base supply voltage
increases, the Q point moves
b. Up
a. Down
c. Nowhere
d. Off the load line
17. The base current is 50 μA. If the
current gain is 100, the collector
current is closest in value to
а. 50 μА
b. 500 LA
c. 2 mA
d. 5 mA
18. When the Q point moves along
the load line, Vce decreases when
the collector current
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
C. Increases
d. Does none of the above
19. When there is no basé current in a
transistor switch, the output
voltage from the transistor is
a. Low
b. High
c. Unchanged
d. Unknown
b. High
'c. Unchanged
d. Unknown
24. If the collector resistor is open,
25.
the collector voltage is
a. Low
b.. High
c. Unchanged
d. Unknown
When the current gain increases
from 50 to 300 in an emitterbiased cireuit, the collector
current
a. 'Remains almost the same
b. Decreases by a factor of 6
c. Increases by a factor of 6
d. Is zero
26. If the emitter resistance increases,
the collector voltage
27.
a. Decreases
b. Stays the same
c. Increases
d. Breaks down the transistor
If the emitter resistance decreases,
the
a. Qpoint moves up
b. Collector current decreases
c. Qpoint stays where it is
d. Current gain increases
Transistor Fundamentals 253
28. When using a DMM to test a
transistor, an approximate reading
of 0.7 V will be found with how
many polarity connections?
a. One
b. Two
c. Three
d. None
29. What DMM polarity connection is
needed on an npn transistor's
base to get a 0.7 V reading?
a. Positive
b. Negative
c. Either positive or negative
d. Unknown
30. When testing an npn transistor
using an ohmmeter, the collectoremitter resistance will be low
when
a. The collector is positive in respect
to the emitter
b. The emitter is positive in respect to
the collector
c. The transistor is normal
d. The transistor is defective
31. The major advantage of a
phototransistor as compared to a
photodiode is its
a. Response to higher frequencies
b. AC operation
c. Increased sensitivity
d. Durability
Problems
SEC. 7-1 VARIATIONS IN CURRENT GAIN
7-1 Refer to Fig. 7-1.What is the current gain of a 2N3904
when the collector current is 100 mA and the junction
temperature is 125°C?
7-2. Refer to Fig. 7-1. Thejunction temperature is 25°C, and.
the collector current is 1.0 mA.What is the current gain?
SEC. 7-2 THE LOAD LINE
7-3
7-4
7-5
Draw the load line e for Fig. 7-250. What is the collector
rrent at the saturati ation point? The collector-emitter
voltage age at the cutoff point?
Figure 7-25
+10 V
wwo
1 Mດ
(a)
+20 VQ
3.3 kſ
+5 V
o
680 ks2
(9)
+5 V
47070ΩΣ
Ifthe collector supply voltage is increased d to 25 V in
Fig. 7-25o, what happens to the load line n?
ifthe collector resistance is increas eased to 4.7 k in
Fig. 7-25a, what happens to the loload line?
7-6 If theh base resistanice of Fig. 7-255a is reduced to 500 k0,
what happens to the load line
7-7
7-8
254
Draw the load line for Fig. 7-25b. What is the collector
current at the saturation point? The collector-emitter
voltage at the cutoff point?
If the collector supplyvoltage is doubled in Fig. 7-25b,
what happens to the load line?
7-9 If the collector resistance is increased to 1 k2.in
Fig. 7-256, what happens to the load line?
SEC. 7-3 THE OPERATING POINT
7-10 In Fig. 7-25a, what is the voltage between the collector
and ground if the current gain is 200?
7-11 The current gain varies from 25 to.300 in Fig. 7-25а.
What is the minimum voltage from the collector to
ground? The maximum?
7-12 The resistors of Fig. 7-250 have a tolerance of ±5
percent. The supplyvoltages have a tolerance of ±10
percent. If the current gain can vary from 50 to 150,.what
is the minimum possible voltage from the collector to
ground? The maximum?
7-13 In Fig. 7-25b, what is the voltage between the collector
and ground if the current gain is 150?
7-14 The current gain varies from 100 to 300 in Fig, 7-25b.
What is the minimum voltage from the collector to
ground? The maximum?
7-15 The resistors of Fig. 7-25b have a tolerance of
±5 percent. The supply voltages have a tolerance of
10 percent. If the current gain can vary from 50 to 150,
what is the minimum possible voltage from the collector
to ground? The maximum?
SEC. 7-4 RECOGNIZING SATURATION
7-16 In Fig. 7-25a, use the circuit values shown unless
otherwise indicated. Determine whether the transistor is
saturated for each of these changes:
a. Rg = 33 k2 and hFE 100
b. VB8 5Vand hFE 200
c. Rc= 10 k and hfE= 50
d. Vec = 10 Vand hFE = 100
Chapter 7
7-17 In Fig. 7-25b, use the circuit values shown uniess
otherwise indicated. Determine whether the transistor is
saturated for each ofthese changes:
a. Rg51 kS2 and hFE 100
b. VB8 10 V and hFE = 500
c. Rc= 10 k and hrE 100
d. Vcc = 10 Vand hFE 100
SEC. 7-5 THE TRANSISTOR SWITCH
7-18 The 680 k in Fig. 7-25b is replaced by 4.7 k and a
series switch. Assuming an ideal transistor, what is the
collector voltage if the switch is open?What is the
collector voltage if the switch is closed?
7-19 Repeạt Prob. 7-18, except use VcEtsat) 0.2 V and
ICEO = 100 пA.
SEC. 7-6 EMITTER BIAS
7-20 |I MoltiSim What is the collecto etor voltage in Fig. 7-26а?
7-25MmitiSim If the collector supply voltag tage is increased
to 15 V in Fig. 7-26b, what is the collector-emitter
voltage for VeB = 1.8 V?
SEC. 7-7 LED DRIVERS
7-26 MultiSim If the base supply voltage is 2 V in
Fig. 7-26c, what is the current through the LED?
7-27 tiSim If Vegp = 1.8 V in Fig. 7-26c, what is the LED
current? The approximate Vc?
SEC. 7-8 THE EFFECT OF SMALL CHANGES
Use the letters U (up), D (down), and N (no change) for for your
answers in the following problems.
7-28 The base supply voltage of Fig. 7-27a dedecreases by
10 percent. Whathappens to the bas base current, collector
current, and collector voltage?
The emitter voltage?
Figure 7-26
+20 V
+2.5 VO
+VBBO
(a)
5+ A
10 22
1.8 k2
1002
+VBB
+10 V
1
Figure 7-27
0+10V
>
4.7 KS2
+10 V
hFE = 100
910 ປີ 1 ΜΩ
180 (a)
+1.8 V
(9)
S
AOL+
3.6 ΚΩ
)כ)
7-21 III MuttiSim Ifthe emitter resistor is doubled in
Fig. 7-260, what is the collector-emitter voltage?
7-22 11 duitiSim If the collector supply voltage is ddecreased
to 15Vin Fig. 7-26a, what is the collector voltag tage?
7-23 【ARESER
if VBg = 2 V?
What is the collector voltage in Fig. 7-266
7-24 MultiSim Sim If the emitter resistor is doubled in
Fig. 7-266, what is the collector-emitter voltage for abase
supplyvoltage of 2.3 V?
7-29 The base resistance of Fig. 7-27g decreáses by 10 percent.
Whatthappens hap to the base current, collector current and
collector voltage?
7-30 The collector resistance of Fig. 7-27a increaseses by
10 percent. Whathappens to the base ecurrer curnt, collector
current, and collector voltage?
7-31 The collector supply voltage of Fig. 7-270 increases by
10 percent. What happens to the base current, collector
current, and collector voltage?
7-32 The base supply voltage of Fig. 7-27b decreases by 10
percent. What happens to the base current, collector
current, and collector voltage?
Transistor Fundamen hentals 255
7-33 The emitter resistance of Fig. 7-276 increases by
10 percent. What happens to the emitter current,
collector current, and collector voltage?
7-34 The collector resistance of Fig. 7-27b increases by
10 percent. What happeris to the emitter current,
collector current, and collector voltage?
7-35 The collector supply voltage of Fig. 7-27b increases by
10 percent. What happens to the emitter current,
collector current, and collector voltage?
SEC. 7-9 TROUBLESHOOTING
7-36 Avoltmeter reads 10 Vat the collector of Fig. 7-27a.
What are some of the troubles that can cause this high
reading?
7-37 What if the ground on the emitter is open in Fig. 7-270?
What will avoltmeter read for the babase voltage? For the
collector voltage?
7-38 A dc voltmeter measures a yery low volt pitage at the
collector of Fig. 7-27a. What are some of ththe possible
troubles?
7-39 Avoltmeter reads 10 Vat the collector of Fig. 7-27b..
What are some of the troubles that can cause thishis high
reading?
7-40 What if the emitter resistor is open in Fig. 7-27b? What
will a voltmeter read for the base voltage? For the
collector voltage?
7-41 A de voltmeter measures 1.1 V at the collector of
Fig. 7-27b. What are some of the possible troubles?
Critical Thinking
7-42 You have built the circuit of Fig. 7-27a, and it is working
normally. Now your job is to destroy the transistor. In
other words, you are trying to find the ways in which to
ruin the transistor. What will you try?
7-43 Afirst-year electronics student invents a new circuit, It
works quite well when the current gain is between 90
and 110. Outside this range, it fails. The student-plans to
mass-produce thé circuit by hand selecting 2N3904s that
have the right current gain, and asks for your advice.
What are some of the things you would say?
7-44 A student swears that a base-biased circuit with a load
line, that is not straight can be built and is willing to bet
you $50 that it can be done. Should you take the bet?
Explain your answer.
7-45 Astudent wants to measure the collector-emitter voltage
in Fig. 7-276 and so connects a voltmeter between the
collector and emitter. What does the voltmeter read?
(Note: There are many right answers.)
7-46 What is the coliector current of Q in Fig. 7-280?
7-47 In Fig. 7-28a, the first transistor has a current gain of 100,
and the second transistor has a current gain of 50. What
is the base current in the first transistor?
ground. If the 3.3 k2 collector resistor is open, wlwhat does
the DMM read?
7-54 Redesign a transistor switch similar to Fig. 7-23a for hard
saturation and to meet these specifications:
7-55
Vcc= 15V VBB.=OV and 15.V Ic(sat) = 5 MA
Using Fig. 7-27b, change the value of the collector
resistor (3.6 KN) so VCE 6.6 V.
Figure 7-28
+5 VOQ
+10 V
100 52
7-48 What is the current through the LED of Fig. 7-28b if
VBB = 0? If VBB = 10 V?
(a)
7-49 The zener diode ofFig. 7-24b is replaced by a 1N4736.
What is the LED current when Veg0?
+10 V
7-50 What is the maximum possible value of current through
the 2 k2 of Fig. 7-29a?
2402
7-51 Figure 7-29b applies to the 4N33 of Fig. 7-29a. If the
voltage across the 2 k is 2 V, what is the value of Vвв?
7-52 The LED is open in Fig. 7-29a, and VBg= 3 V. Avoltmeter
is connected between the collector of the 2N3904 and
ground. What does the voltmeter read?
7-53
256
A DMM has an input resistance of 10 MO. The DMM is
connected between the collector of Fig. 7-25a and
2.4 k2
+VBB o
(9)
5V
2702
Chapter 7.
Figure 7-29
+10 V
100
2k요
4N33 w
10 V
10
1.0
ウ
0.1
0001+ A
오
0.01
+VBB 2N3904
0.001
430 2 0.0001
0.1
(a)
1.0
LED, MA
(b)
4N33
10 100
Up-Down Analy
Use Fig. 7-30 for the remaining problems. Assume increases.of
approximately 10 percent in the independent variable, and use
the second approximation of the transistor. Aresponse should
be an N (no change) if the change in a dependent variable is so
smali that you would have difficulty measuring it, For instance,
you probably would find it difficult to measure a change of less
than 1 percent. To a troubleshooter, a change like this is usually
considered to be no change at all.
7-56 Try to predict the response of each dependent variable in
the row labeled VaB. Then answer the following question
as simply and directly as possible. What effect does an
increase in the base-supply voltage have on the dependent variables ofthe circuit?
7-57 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Vcc. Then summarize your findings in one or
two sentences.
7-58 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Re. List the dependent variables that decrease.
Explain why these variables decrease, using Ohm's law or
similar basic ideas.
7-59 Predict the response of each dependent variable in the
row labeled Rc. List the dependent variables that show no
change. Explain why these variables show no change.
Figure 7-30 Up-down analysis.
Rc
VBB
2 V
T
B
E
C
Pde
SRE
<
130
470 Ω
100
Vcc
15 V
Transistor Fundamentals
(a)
구
INDEPENDENT VARIABLES
10%
increase VB
DEPENDENT VARIABLES
VE Vc IE 이1.
IB
VBB
VCc
RE
RC
(9)
257
Job Interview Questions
1. Draw a base-biased circuit. Then, tell me how to calculate
the collector-emitter voltage. Why is this circuit likely to fail
in mass production if a precise value of current gain is
needed?
2. Draw another base-biased circuit. Draw a load line for the
circuit and tell me how to calculate the saturation and
cutoff points. Discuss the effects of a changing current gain
on the location of the Opoint.
3. What is the difference between base bias and emitter bias?
In what kind of circuits is each useful?
4.
5.
6.
Draw an emitter-biased circuit and tell me how it works.
What happens to the collector current when the transistor
is replaced or the temperature changes?
Tell me how you would test a transistor out of a circuit.
What kind of tests can you do while the transistor is in a
circuit with the power on?
What is an optocoupler and what are its advantages?
want to see a drawing of the device and an explanation of
how it works.
7. What effect does temperature have on current gain?
8. What is the primary application of a base-biased circuit?
9. What piece of test equipment does a technician use for a
preliminary test of a transistor?
10. What kind of faults can a transistor curve tracer detect?
11. Draw a base-biased circuit. Now, explain three ways to
saturate this circuit and show the values.
12. When troubleshooting a switching circuit with a voltmeter,
how can you tell whether the transistor is in saturation or
cutoff?
13. Which transistor would tend to saturate more with less
base current: atransistor with a large Rcor one with a small
Rc?
14. When a base-biased transistor is used as a switch, what is
the transistor doing?
Self-Test Answers
1. a
2.b
12. C 23. b
13.
d 24. a
3. d 14. C 25. a
4. d
15. a 26. C
5. C. 16.
b 27. a
6. c 17. d
28.
이
7. a 18. C 29. a
.8
ວ 19. b
30. d
9. b
20. b 31.
د
10. a 21.
11. b 22. d
258 Chapter 7
Practice Problem Answers
7-2 c(sat)= 6 mA; VCE(cutof 12V
7-4 Ic isat)= 3 mA;
The slope would decrease.
7-5 VCE= 8.25 V
7-7 Rg47 k2
7-8 VCE= 11.999 V and 0.15 V
7-9. VeE= 8.1 V
7-10 R=680
Transistor Fundamentals
259
chapter 8 Transistor
Biasing
A prototype is a basic circuit design that can be modified.to get more
advanced circuits. Base bias is a prototype used in the design of
switching circuits. Emitter bias is a prototype used in the design of
amplifying circuits. In this chapter, we emphasize emitter bias and the
practical circuits that can be derived from it.
Chapter Outline
8-1 Voltage-Divider Bias
8-2 Accurate VDB Analysis
8-3 VDB Load Line and QPoint
8-4 Two-Supply Emitter Bias
8-5 Other Types of Bias
8-6 Troubleshooting
8-7 PNPTransistors
Vocabulary
collector-feedback. bias
emitter-feedback bias
firm voltage divider
prototype
Objectives
After studying this chapter, you should be
able to:
鐵
Draw a diagram of a voltage-divider
bias circuit.
Calculate the divider current, base
voltage, emitter voltage, emitter
current, collector voltage, and
coliector-emitter voltage for an nри
VDB circuit.
Determine how to draw the load line
and calculate the Qpoint for a given
VDB circuit.
Design a VDB circuit using design
guidelines.
Draw a two-supply emitter bias
circuit and calculate VRE, IE,VC and
VCE
Compare several different types of
bias and describe how well each
works.
Calculate the @point of pnp VDB
circuits.
Troubleshoot transistor-biasing
circuits.
self-bias
stage
stiff voltage divider
two-supply emitter bias
(TSEB)
voltage-divider bias (VDB)
swamp out
261
Figure 8-1 Voltage-divider bias.
(a) Circuit; (b) voltage divider;
(c) simplified circuit.
V8g
グラ
(a)
(b)
(c)
+VBB
+Vcc
RE
Q+Vcc
Q+Vcc
M Rc
>RRE
8-1 Voltage-Divider Bias
Figure 8-1a shows the most widely used biasing circuit. Notice that the base circuit contains a voltage divider (R1 and R2). Because of this, the circuit is called
voltage-divider bias (VDB).
Simplified Analysis
For troubleshooting and preliminary analysis, use the following method. In any
well-designed VDB circuit, the base current is much smaller than the current
through the voltage divider. Since the base current has a negligible effect on the
. voltage divider, we can mentally open the connection between the voltage divider
and the base to get the equivalent circuit of Fig. 8-1b. In this circuit, the output of
the voltage divider is
VBB=
R2 Vcc
R1+ R2
Ideally, this is the base-supply voltage as shown in Fig. 8-1c.
As you can see, voltage-divider bias is really emitter bias in disguise. In
other words, Fig. 8-1c is an equivalent circuit for Fig: 8-1a. This is why VDB sets
up a fixed value of emitter current, resulting in a solid point that is independent
of the current gain.
There is an error in this simplified approach, and we will discuss it in the
next section. The crucial point is this: In any well-designed circuit, the error in
using Fig. 8-1c is very small. In other words, a designer deliberately chooses
circuit values so that Fig. 8-1a acts like Fig. 8-1c.
Conclusion
After you calculate VEB, the rest of the analysis is the same as discussed earlier
for emitter bias in Chap. 7. Here is a summary of the equations you can use to
analyze VDB:
R2
VBB= Vcc
R1 + R2
VEVBB- BE
VE Ig=
RE
ICIE
Vc=Vcc -IcRc
VCE = Vc- VE
(8-1)
(8-2)
(8-3)
(8-4)
(8-5)
(8-6)
These equations are based on Ohm's and Kirchhoff's laws. Here are the steps in
the analysis:
1.
2.
3.
4.
Calculate the base voltage VEB out of the voltage divider.
Subtract 0.7 V to get the emitter voltage (üse 0.3 Vfor germanium)
Divide bythe emitter resistance to get the emitter current.
Assume that the collector current is approximately equal to the emitte
current.
262 Chapter 8
GOOD TO KNOW
Since Ve IcRE Eq. (8-6) can also
be shown as
or
VCE= VCc-ICRC- ICRE:
VCE = Vcc- Ic(Rc+ RE).
5.
6.
Calculate the collector-to-ground voltage by subtracting the voltage
across the collector resistor from the collector supply voltage.
Calculate the collector-emitter voltage by subtracting the emitter
voltage from the collector voltage.
Since these six steps are logical, they should be easy to remember. After yon
analyze a fewVDB circuits, the process becomes automatic.
Example 8-1
Figure ure 8-2 Example.
TO k
ww
Y
2.2 k
!!M@itiSi
What is the collector-emitter voltage in Fig. 8-2?
Q+10 V SOLUTION
10 ΚΩ +2.2ΚΩ
The voltage divider produces an unloaded output voltage of:
2.2 ΚΩ VBB 10 V 1.8 V
Subtract 0.7 V from this to get:
SRC
>3.6 ΚΩ
VE = 1.8 V-0.7 V = 1.1V
The emitter current is:
1.1 V
= 1.1 mA l1k
Transistor Biasing
<
2N3904
RE
1 kS2
Since the collector current almost equals the emitter current, wecan calculate
the collector-to-ground voltage like this:
Vc = 10 V - (1.1 mA)(3.6 kf2) = 6.04 V
The collector-emitter voltage is:
VCE = 6.041.1 V4,94 V
Here is an important point: The calculations in this prelirninary analysis
do not depend on changes in the transistor, the collector current, orthet de temperаture. This is why the point ofthis circuit is stable, almost rock-solid.
PRACTICE PROBLEM 8-1 Change the power supply voltage of Fig. 8-2
from 10 V to 15 V and solve for VCE
Example 8-2 Muitis
Discuss the significance of Fig. 8-3, which shows a MultiSim analysis of the
same circuit analyzed in the preceding example.
SOLUTION This really drives the point home. Here we have an almost identical answer using a computer to analyze the circuit. As you can see, the voltmeter reads 6.03 V(rounded to 2 places). Compare this to 6.04 V-in the preceding example, and you can see the point. Asimplified analysis has produced
essentially the same result as a computer analysis.
You can expect this kind of close agreement whenever a VDB circuit
has been well designed, After all, the whole point of VDB is to act lik emitter
bias to virtually eliminate the effects ofchanging the transistor, collector curent.
or temperature.
263
|||1aitiSien Figure 8-3 MultiSim example.
10 kດ Σ3.6 ΚΩ
¿2.2 kΩ
ΚΩ
Agilemva Dit Mel 60
6.02719
XMM1
두
VDC
MATH
10
A
PRACTICE PROBLEM 8-2 Using MultiSim, change the supply voltage of
Fig. 8-3 to 15 V and measure VCE. Compare your measured value to the answer
of Practice Problem 8-1.
264
8-2 Accurate VDB Analysis
What is a well-designed VDB circuit? It is one in which the voltage divider
appears stiff to the input resistance ofthe base. The meaning of the last sentence
needs to be discussed.
Source Resistance
Chapter 1 introduced the idea of a stiffvoltage source:
Stiff voltage source: Rs < 0.01RL
When this condition is satisfied, the load voltage is within 1 percent of the ideal
voltage. Now, let us extend this idea to the voltage divider.
Chapter 8
Figure 8-4 (a) Theve: venin resistance; (b) equivalent cirg it; (c) input resistance
I of base.
+Vcc
님
R
(a)
Ac
RR2
RTH
VBB
S
(b(
RE
مسلم
Vcc
Niy
<
ZRC
(c)
RE
VcdCc
What is the Thevenin resistance of the voltage divider in Fig. 8-4а?
Looking back into the voltage divider with Vcc grounded, we see R₁ in parailel
with R2. As an equation:
RTH R1R2
Because of this resistance, the output voltage of the voltage divider is
not ideal. Amore accirate analysis includes the Thevenin resistance, as shown in
Fig. 8-4b. The current through this Thevenin resistance reduces the base voltage
from the ideal value of VBB.
Load Resistance
How much less than ideal is the base voltage? The voltage divider has to supply
the base current in Fig. 8-4b. Put another way, the voltage divider sees a load
resistance ofRIN, as shown in Fig. 8-4c. For the voltage divider to appear stiff to
the base, the 100: 1 rule:
Rs <0.01RL
translates to:
R1R2<0.01RIN
Awell-designed VDB circuit will satisfy this condition.
Stiff Voltage Divider
(8-7)
If the transistor of Fig. 8-4c has a current gain of 100, its collector current is
100 times greater than the base current. This implies that the emitter current is
also 100times greater than the base current. When seen from the base side of the
transistor, the emitter resistance Rg appears to be 100 times larger. As a derivation:
RIN = BacRE (8-8)
Therefore, Eq. (8-7) may be written as:
Stiff voltage divider: R1|R2 <0.01BaoRE (8-9)
Whenever possible, a designer selects circuit values to satisfy this 100:1
because it will produce an ultrastable point.
rule
Transistox Biasing
265